Using data analysis to inform decisions


we'll go into data analysis and how project managers use it to make informed decisions throughout a project. We use data every day to help us make both simple
and important decisions in our lives. 

For example, imagine that you're saving money for a big purchase. Maybe you decided that the best way to reach your goal sooner is to create a budget. After
spending time reviewing your budget, perhaps you find that your weekly expenses are higher than your weekly allowances and that many of your expenses are from 
ordering food and dining out. 

You realize that in order for you to reach your goal, you'll need to start spending less money on eating out and find more cost-effective ways to buy food. 
With this new information, you've found a way to save up for your big purchase. Similar to how you might create an adjusted budget to reach a desired outcome,
it's your role as a project manager to select appropriate data to help inform your decision-making. You can do this using a process called data analysis.

Data analysis is the process of collecting and organizing information to help draw conclusions. It's used to solve problems, make informed decisions, and support
goals. Businesses use data analysis to reveal important insights and patterns within their data that help inform actions and drive results. Gathering data is
only part of the process. The other part is analyzing the data. What you learn from your analysis becomes knowledge that powers smart solutions for your project.

Project managers will often apply data analysis to look for repeated behaviors and to find a solution based on data predictions. For example, let's imagine that a
ride-share company has a group of data analysts working on using patterns in rider behavior to improve customer support. They noticed a high demand for drivers
midweek during rush hour in one specific city.

As a result, riders are having a hard time getting drivers to pick them up during peak hours. As a project manager, you've been asked to come up with a solution
to help meet the increased demand for drivers. You work with your team to determine which data points would be most appropriate to review. 

You might decide to track peak traffic times, the number of average daily rider requests, and the number of available drivers. These data points can help inform
how to solve for the high demand during rush hour. After analyzing the data, your team realizes that one solution could be to offer incentives to drivers to pick
up riders in the city during peak times. The new incentives make drivers feel appreciated, and the increase in drivers increases customer satisfaction.

And you came to this solution thanks to the insights gleaned from data analysis. In this example, you collected types of data: qualitative and quantitative.
Quantitative data includes statistical and numerical facts about the number of rider requests that came in. Requests in the city increased at specific points over
a period of time. The other data is qualitative data, which describes the subjective qualities or things that can't be measured with numerical data, like user
feedback about the service or product. 

In project management, you will use both qualitative data and quantitative data points to inform decisions, make improvements, and share insights. 
