Overview project management – Week 2
Google certificate


Exploring how a project manager adds value:
Project managers shepherd projects from start to finish and serve as guides for their team, using their impeccable organizational and interpersonal skills every step of the way.
They usually follow a process that involves planning and organizing, managin tasks, budgeting and controlling cost so that the project can be completed within the approved
timeframe.

a. Prioritization
  - Effective prioritization of tasks required to complete a project.
  - identify
  - break dow large tasks into smaller steps.
  - Connect with their teams and with stakeholder to gather information and make a plan
    
b. Delegation
   - Matching tasks to individuals who can best complete the work
   
  
c. Effective communication: Deliver value through effective communication, both with their team and with key stakeholders.
   - Keep regular contact with their team about the progress of the work and help identify areas where a teammate may need support
   - Keep regular contact with people outside of the team (leaders, people invested in the project outcomes)
   
   
2. How project managers impact organizations

a. Focusing on the customer

 - What is the problem you would like us to help solve?
 - How is the problem impacting your organization?
 - What prompted you to ask for help now?
 - What is your hope for the outcome of this project?


b. Building a great team

  - Understanding the customer’s requirements helps shape the skills needed for your team.
  
c. Fostering relationships and communication

 - A successful project manager knows that and takes the time to understand each persons’s motivations, strengths, and weaknesses.
 - The prọect managers who add the most value are the ones who take the time to build relationships, communicate, and treat others with consideration and respect.
 - Taking the time to check in daily with your team, see how they’re doing, and ask if there is anything they need help with can go a long way to wards making them feel 
 valued and heard.
 
 
d. Managing projects

  - A successful project manager sees the impacts of each process within the project and communicates those impacts to the team. This ensures that everyone working on the 
  project understands their task goal as well as the big picture goal for the finished product.
  

e. Breaking down barriers

 - You can provide support for your team as they try new approaches to find solutions, and you can advocate for additional resources for your team.
 
 

                Key Project manager roles and responsibilities

 Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and achieve the desired outcome.

 Project management responsibilities:

a. Planning and organizing
  - Make use of productivity tools and create processes
  - Create plans, timelines, scheduales, and other forms of documentation to track project completion
  - Maintain those documents throughout the entirety of the project.
  
  
b. Managing tasks: a project task is an activity that needs to be accomplished within a set period of time by your, your team or your stakeholders.

c. Budgeting and controlling costs and other factors.
   - Monitor and manage the budget
   - track issues and risks
   - Manage quality
   - Remove unforeseen barriers
   
   
   
                                    Responsibilities that utilize interpersonal skills
                                    

a. What are the core job responsibilities of project managers?

The project manager is responsible for planning, organizing, managing tasks, budgeting, controlling costs, and other factors to thelp keep the project within budget and on time.
Tracking day-to-day details of the project.


b. Teaching and mentoring:

Mentoring and teaching others the lessons that you, as a project manager, have learned allows your team to make better choices and build on your experience. Mentoring also 
involves supporting each individual on your team in meeting expectations and helping them to exceed their own sense of personal potential.


c. Building relationships:

Raking the time to build relationships with your customers, clients, vendors, and other stakeholders is equally important.

Take care your team mates, ask about their lives beyond the project, and then follow up on those discussions later on to show your interest.



d. Controlling change

A good way to remain flexible and adjust to the stakeholders’ needs and also protect your team from constant change and rework is by documenting the initial expectations of
the project and clearly identifying the changes being requested.

Make clearly the budget and schedule impaact of the changes and make sure that the stakeholders understand those impacts.



e. Empowering your team

Giving your team the ability to work directly with the stakeholders and their teams lets them know that you trust and believe in their skills.

  - Getting fresh ideas and passionate employees to help find solutions to problems
  - delegating responsibilites to them, allowing them to kae some decisions for the project
  - using their input in the planning and execution of the project.
  
  
f. Communicating status and concerns

  - Set the tone for the project.
  - Maintainng an open door policy and builidng trust within your team and among stakeholders.
  
  
  
                A project manager’s role within a team

A prọject manager is not often the direct manager of the people working on a project team.

With the help of your team, you can get a lot more done together.

Each person will be an expert on their portion of the project, but no one will be an expert on every aspect of the project.

You’re responsible for guiding your team and making sure that they have the support that they need in order to complete the project.

  - Hold all team members accoungtable for their assigned tasks
  - Ensure that issues and risks are tracked and visible and establish escalation paths (communication about risks with right people at right time)
  - Understand and help teammates to adopt the right workflows and project management styles.
  - Collaborate with other teams at the organization to deliver solutions that meet the requirements based on project scope, schedule, and budget.
  
  
  
  
                               Working with corss-functional teams

Clarify goals:

It is important to ensure that each member of the team understands their role, how they support each other, and the common goals of the project.

  - Tasks or project goals
  - key items (budget, deadline, quality requirements, or important resources).
  
  
=> Encourage team members to ask questions and clarify information.

=> Check daily to make sure they’re all moving towards their goals, staying on track and completing quality work.



a. Get team member with the right skills

Make sure team members with the correct skills sets for each of the project functions.

b. Measure progress

Showing your team how much they have accomplished helps keep them motivated.

You can measure progress in many ways, including meeting key milestones, completing project tasks, and meeting project goals on time and within budget. Keep track of the team’s
progress throughout the project by documenting when tasks and goals are completed, and let your team members know if the project is on track or not.

c. Recognize efforts
As a project manager, it is your job to make sure that each member of your cross functional team recognizes the value of their efforts each step of the way. 
You have learned the importance of building relationships with stakeholders, and building relationships with your cross-functional team members is just as important. 
Learning what makes your team members feel supported, giving and taking feedback, and being mindful of each individual’s background, personal identifiers, and work style can 
help mediate some of the differences among team members.




                                     Identify the essential skills of a project manager

An event planning team of five is tasked with planning a corporate retreat for a business with 85 employees. This retreat involves hundreds of to-dos, a large budget, 
client-initiated changes, and importatn discussions with the client. The project manager knows there is a lot to do, and they are ready to lead the way.

Right from the beginning of the project, the project manager creates a spreadsheet to track what needs to get done in the project, and what teammates are working on. 
They also send status update emails twice per week for the stakeholders.

The project has a $100,000 budget. There are many items to purchase and rent, including venue space, retreat materials, food, chairs, and tables. The project manager allows 
each one of their teammates up to $3000 in expenses, with anything over requiring an approval.

Shortly after the project begins, the client decides they want to slightly change the theme of the project to focus on the future instead of the past. The project manager has
to work with several team members to implement the changes which include graphic design, retreat materials, and signage.

Throughout the process of changing the theme of the retreat, the project manager works closely with the client by phone, email, chat, and video to ensure that the theme updates 
meet their expectations.

Towards the end of the project, the deadline to schedule an end of retreat award-ceremony dinner is two days away. Several crucial decisions need to be made including the menu,
lighting, and presentation music. To make sure the deadline is met, the project manager has a video meeting with the client to ensure the dinner choices meet their expectations.

1. How did the project manager enable decision making in the project? Write 1-3 sentences. – How the project manager enables their team

By giving each teammate a $3000 purchasing limit, the project manager enables teammates to make decisions on what to buy for the retreat. If he/she didn’t give the team this
option, then the project manager would have to make all the final purchasing decisions themselves.

2. How did the project manager communicate and escalate in the project? How the project manager deal with that deadline

When the deadline for the celebration dinner was approaching, the project manager scheduled a meeting with the client to escalate and communicate the decisions that needed 
to be made. If the project manager didn’t escalate these decisions, it may have gone past the deadline to order food and materials for the dinner.

3. How did the project manager remain flexible in the project? How the project manager addressed client expectations

When the clent requested to change the them of the retreat, the project manager had to stay flexible. They worked with teammates to get the necessary changes in place quickly.

4. How did the project manager use strong organizational skills in the project? The project manager created a spreadsheet to track and organize the tasks for the project.

They also used the tracker to assign tasks to specific team members. sending status updates twice per week was also a way the project manager stayed organized. the status
updates could also be viewed as a communication skills as well.

