                           EXPLORING THE PHASES OF THE PROJECT LIFE CYCLE


 The life cycle is a great way to guide your project in the right direction so that you and your project stay on track and end up in the right place.
 
 Most project life cycles have four major phases, each with their own set of tasks and concerns.
 
 The main phases of a project are: 
 
 initiate the project
 make a plan
 execute and complete tasks
 close the project.
 
 
 
 first phase 
 
 initiate the project : This is the launchpad for the entire process of your project. In this phase, you'll define project goals and deliverables, identify the 
 budget and resources you'll need, the people involved in your project, and any other details that can impact the successful completion of your project.
 
 You'll document all this information in one place to showcase the project's value, and hopefully get approval to move forward with it. Once the project is approved, it's time 
 to get rolling.
 
 
 
 Second phase
 make a plan : for how you will meet the goals of your project. There are all kinds of ways to plan your project, and we'll get into some different methods and techniques later
 on. Right now, the important thing to know is that for every single project, creating a plan of how you're going to meet your goals is absolutely 100 percent essential.
 To be effective, your plan needs to include a lot of things. For example, a budget, a breakdown of all the tasks that you need to be completed, ways to communicate team roles 
 and responsibilities, a schedule, resources, and what to do in case your project encounters problems or needs to change.
 
 
 
 Third phase
 Execute: It's important to point out that your project team has the job of completing the project tasks. As a project manager, your role's a little different. While you might
 be in charge of completing certain tasks in the project, your primary tasks as the project manager are to monitor progress and keep your team motivated. You also remove any
 obstacles that might come up so that the tasks are executed well and on time.
 
 
 Finally, when all the tasks have been completed, all the resources have been accounted for and the project has crossed the finish line, it's time to close the project.
 Why is it important to close? One big reason is so your team has a moment to celebrate all of their hard work.
 
 Closing the project is also a chance to evaluate how the project went. You can make note of what worked and what didn't so you can plan better for next time.
 
 Even if the project was a massive success, it's helpful to take time to reflect. Closing the project is also a great way to connect with anyone outside your team who may have
 had interest in the project's goal. You can let everyone know what was completed and what you accomplished. 
 
 
 Once the project is finished, that's it. There's no more work to do. Other projects have different finish lines.
 
 At that point, your goals are completed. It's time to hand over the project to another group whose job it is to provide support and make sure the system stays running on a 
 day-to-day basis.
 
 I once project managed the creation of a dashboard that would be used by various stakeholders in my organization. This dashboard would show pertinent information to each 
 stakeholder, depending on the team that they were a part of in our broader organization. I project managed the beginning, from writing up the vision for the project to
 the end where we delivered the dashboard. Once I passed off the final product, I transitioned the continued update of each team's data and the corresponding dashboard page 
 to the respective teams. Think of it like turning over the keys of a newly built house to its new owner. The project of building the house is complete and now it's up to the 
 owner to take care of the house's maintenance and the upkeep. There you have it. The project life-cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Case study: The significance of each project phase
 
 The consequences of rushing through a project phase
 
 
 It’s Friday night when Jason, a project manager at a company that specializes in virtual reality software, receives an urgent call from his manager, Mateo. Mateo tells Jason 
 that he needs a cost and timeline for a virtual reality training program for Flight Simulators, Inc., a company that does aircraft maintenance, by the end of the weekend.

Jason spends the weekend working through a proposal for Flight Simulators, Inc. He quickly throws together a proposal estimating that it will cost $200,000 and take six weeks
to develop the course. This is the standard cost and time frame for developing training on his company’s platform. He sends the proposal over to Flight Simulators, Inc. 
so that he can meet their deadline. 

When Jason walks into the office on Monday morning, Mateo tells him that he got reprimanded for not following the company’s process for building out a proposal and including 
the engineers in the process. The engineers take a look at the information presented by Flight Simulators, Inc. and realize that the company’s software won’t work with their 
platform. It will take six months to develop their platform to meet the needs of the organization’s software and another six months to test the software and platform 
integration. The cost to develop and test this software will be over a million dollars.  

This project has failed before it even started. There’s no way to complete the request from Flight Simulators, Inc. without impacting the budget, quality, and timeline. 


What should have happened
When his manager calls, Jason tells him that while he understands that Mateo wants to make the customer happy by getting them a proposal promptly, he would like to take a
little more time to get the proposal right. Jason tells Mateo that he will draft up an email to Flight Simulators, Inc. and request additional time to develop an accurate
and reasonable proposal. Mateo is hesitant but agrees. 

On Monday morning, Jason sees that Flight Simulators, Inc. has responded to his request. They appreciate the fact that he communicated his concerns about the quick
turnaround on the proposal request. They say they will give him a week to work with his team to provide an estimate for the project.  

Now Jason has the time to get all of the key players involved in estimating the effort it will take to complete the project, including the cost, schedule, and resources. 

Let’s apply the project life cycle to this project. 

1. Initiating the project
This is the phase Jason rushed through in the first scenario. Ideally, in this phase, Jason discusses project goals with Flight Simulators, Inc. to gain a clear understanding 
of what they are asking for. Once Jason has defined the project goals, he can gather the stakeholders and project team members to define what needs to be done to successfully
create this training for Flight Simulators, Inc. Jason identifies the skill sets required, the timeline, and the cost to develop the training. He identifies and documents the
value that this project creates for the company. He presents all of the information he has put together to his company’s leadership team, who approves Jason’s proposal. 
Jason then submits the proposal to Flight Simulators, Inc., and they accept it. 


2. Making a plan
Now that Jason has the green light to work on the project, he makes a project plan to get from start to finish. Having a plan in place ensures that all team members and 
stakeholders are prepared to complete their tasks. Jason outlines the important deadlines and tasks for the project to be successful. He creates a schedule to account for 
all resources, materials, and tasks needed to complete the project. 


3. Executing and completing tasks
During this project phase, Jason’s project team puts his plan in motion by executing the work. Jason monitors his team as they complete project tasks. His role as the project
manager is not to complete the individual tasks but to help break down any barriers that would slow or stop the team from completing their tasks. It is also Jason’s 
responsibility to communicate schedule and quality expectations. Jason uses his communication skills to keep Flight Simulators, Inc. up to date on the project status and gather
feedback from them. This keeps the project on schedule and within budget.



4. Closing the project
Jason’s team has successfully completed the training, and he delivers it to Flight Simulators, Inc. They are very pleased with how it turned out! Jason is now ready to close 
this project and move on to the next one. Before he closes this chapter, Jason and his team discuss and document the lessons learned from the project. What worked well, and
what could work better next time? Jason also puts together a small lunch gathering for his team to celebrate and recognize their hard work. 




Key takeaway
It may seem like a lot of work to go through an entire project life cycle, but the long-term impact it will have on your project is huge! It is your job as the project manager
to make sure that your leadership truly understands the risk of not properly preparing for a project. Making assumptions that are incorrect can put your company at risk. 
Instead, taking the time to carefully initiate, plan, execute, and close your project leads to project success and good working relationships with customers.  


 
 
 
 
 
