Retrospectives: Addressing negativity


In the last video, we discussed some ways you could encourage accountability in a retrospective. In this video, you'll learn how to address negativity in a
retrospective. Thoughtfully handling negativity is an important skill you'll need in order to effectively lead productive discussions in the future.

The ability to guide discussions that break down project performance while maintaining a constructive and positive tone will help you identify and improve problem
areas of a specific project. After this video, you'll observe Peta carefully handle negativity as she leads a retrospective. Then you'll apply similar techniques as
you wrap up your own retrospective document.

Before you do your own retrospective, it's important to ask yourself, is this conversation likely to feel stressful for the team? Sometimes the answer will be yes.
Let's talk about why negativity sometimes comes up during retrospective discussions. Retrospectives are a great way to build trust, honesty, and direct communication
with a team.

But keep in mind, if the environment doesn't feel psychologically safe to the team, it's very easy for a retrospective to turn negative. Negativity could make it more
difficult to hold a productive discussion that identifies solutions to project challenges. If you sense subtle or even obvious negativity during a retrospective 
discussion, here are some techniques you can use to change the tone of the meeting and guide the team toward a more positive outlook. 

To address team negativity, aim to set a positive tone at the start of the meeting, kick off by highlighting project successes. Maybe the team received positive
feedback from a stakeholder, or you could thank the team for their hard work in reaching a major milestone.

Determine how you'll set the tone of the meeting. Meeting props can help with this. For example, you might hand out an even number of green and red index cards to
each participant and ask attendees to write successes on the green cards and challenges on the red cards. Passing out green cards might subtly encourage the team to
think of successes in addition to challenges.

Even on teams with a generally positive overall dynamic, it's always possible for negativity to come up. So it might be a good idea to try anticipating any potential 
negativity by meeting one on one with team members before the retrospective happens. If you get the feeling that one team member is likely to bring a negative
attitude to the retrospective, try asking yourself a few questions.

Does this person feel insecure about the value they add to this team? Does this person receive negative feedback on the quality of their work? Understanding the root
of the negativity can help you figure out how to help the person engage with the group in a more positive way. For example, if you sense the person is feeling 
insecure, you could try reassuring them of their value.

A single negative voice can derail otherwise productive discussions. As the retrospective leader, it's your role to step in when one person's negativity dominates 
the conversation. To deal with negative participation from an individual team member, consider asking team members individually to share their thoughts. 

Calling on team members individually does a few things. It gives each person room to share challenges. It helps them model solution-oriented thinking for their
negative team member. And it discourages the negative team member from dominating the conversation by responding to every question.

Finally, you might call a meeting break. A timeout is a great way to help deescalate the situation. It's good to remember that there's no single technique that fits 
every scenario. How you choose to address negativity will depend on the situation. 

Let's review. To address negativity during a retrospective, you can aim to set a positive tone at the start of the meeting, determine how you'll set the tone of the
meeting. Consider asking individual team members to share their thoughts rather than posing questions to the group, or call a meeting break. In the upcoming 
activity, you'll observe Peta by reviewing the supporting materials as she navigates negative situations in the Sauce &amp; Spoon team's retrospective.
