Choose the right tracking method for your project


So far, you've learned about the importance of tracking project progress. You’ve also reviewed some of the different tracking methods used by project managers,
like project plans, Gantt and Burndown charts, and Roadmaps. This reading will explore and compare these popular tracking methods in more detail so you can feel
more confident choosing the best method for your projects.

Gantt charts
The Gantt chart is one of the most popular tracking methods and can be used for all types of projects. Gantt charts typically live in your project charter and
are updated as the project progresses.

Gantt charts are useful for:

1. Helping a team stay on schedule

2. Projects with lots of tasks, dependencies, and milestones

3. Projects with large teams, because ownership and responsibilities are explicitly laid out visually

Asana, one of the work management software tools featured in this certification, has useful resources for getting started with Gantt charts. Practice working
with Gantt charts on your own with a free Asana trial or by downloading a free Gantt chart template from Google Sheets or Microsoft Excel. 

Want to learn more? Check out these resources:

Asana help article: New to Gantt charts? Start here.



Roadmaps
Roadmaps are another common tracking method. Like Gantt charts, Roadmaps also track both individual and project progress toward milestones. However, Roadmaps 
are best suited for tracking big milestones in your project. 

Roadmaps are useful for:

1. High-level tracking of large milestones. Roadmaps outline the project as a whole and provide an overall snapshot of key points—just like an actual roadmap 
contains points of interest and mile markers. 

2. Illustrating to your team or key stakeholders how a project should evolve over time

Roadmaps can be built using different tools. You can create a Roadmap in a document (like this example). 



Smartsheet has useful resources for getting started with Roadmaps. Practice working with Roadmaps on your own with a free Smartsheet trial or by downloading
this Roadmap template created with Google Sheets.

Want to learn more? Check out these resources:

1. Smartsheet help article: Everything you need to know about Project Roadmaps

2. Free Product Roadmap templates from Smartsheet

Burndown charts
Burndown charts are typically used by Agile Scrum teams. Burndown charts reveal how quickly your team is working by displaying how much work is left and how much
time remains to complete the work. The main uses of a Burndown chart are to keep the project team on top of targeted completion dates and make them aware of 
scope creep if it occurs. The chart should be displayed so everyone can see it and needs to be updated regularly in order to be effective.

Burndown charts are useful for:

1. Projects that require a detailed review of tasks

2. Projects where finishing on time is the top priority

*Note: If you'd like to learn about Agile and Scrum, which are popular project management approaches, check out Course 5 of this certificate, Agile 
Project Management.

A Burndown chart helps you, as a project manager, understand how your team works and what influences their ability to complete tasks on time. This way, you 
can address issues right away, before they become major problems. They also help you plan more efficiently for the next project by identifying potential 
problem areas.


Jira is a work management software tool that has useful resources for getting started with Burndown charts. Practice working with Burndown charts on your own
with a free Jira trial or by downloading this Burndown chart template created with Google Sheets.

Want to learn more? Check out these resources:

1. Jira help article: Learn how to use burndown charts in Jira software

2. ProjectManager.com article: Burndown Chart: What Is It & How Do I Use It?

