The importance of tracking

once the project execution phase gets going, how do you actually know that the work is getting done? Well, you can do this in a few ways, but primarily, you
can keep tabs on project progress by tracking and measurement. This is actually a big part of project management.

Tracking, by definition, is a method of following the progress of a project's activities. Measuring project performance regularly to identify deviations from 
the project plan can help ensure that the project stays on track. A deviation is anything that alters your original course of action.

Deviations from the project plan can be positive or negative. Are you ahead of schedule because a technical problem is less complex than you estimated? Thumbs up.
Did a natural disaster shut down your testing team? Big thumbs down. Both of these are examples of deviations. They're also examples of why tracking is such a
crucial part of your role during the project execution phase.

Let's examine some of the ways that tracking is beneficial for your project's success. To start, tracking makes key project information transparent, and
transparency is essential for accurate decision-making. Even the strongest project managers make poor decisions when they lack information or context.

Tracking centralizes project information so that everyone can understand the status of each part of the project, which can then help you identify gaps in your 
knowledge. Also, projects have so many little details. It's hard to keep everything straight. 

Tracking helps ensure that you don't risk forgetting something. Second, tracking helps keep all team members and stakeholders in touch with deadlines and goals.
To ensure that everyone has visibility into project progress, you should have a project plan that works both for you and your team. This way you're all on the
same page about how the project is progressing. You will learn about different ways to track a project later in this module. 

Tracking is also crucial for recognizing risks and issues that can derail your progress. With effective tracking, you will be able to identify issues in a timely 
fashion and work with your team to take corrective action. By providing visibility into the various parts of the project, tracking helps you and your team identify
and focus on areas at risk.

And finally, tracking helps build confidence that the project is set to be delivered on time, in-scope, and within budget. Having a clear, up-to-date picture of
the overall project status keeps the team motivated and focused on staying the course.

So to recap, tracking is important for a few key reasons, like transparency, risk management, and keeping the project on track.
