 So far, you should have completed a project charter for Sauce and Spoon's tablet rollout. The project charter helps you organize vital project information,
 create a framework for the work that needs to be done, and communicate those details to the necessary people. Once the project charter is created and confirmed, 
 you'll use it to start the project planning stage. 
 
 In the upcoming activities, we'll be progressing from the initiation phase of the project life cycle to the planning phase. Here, you'll put your knowledge and 
 skills to work on a project plan, which is the central artifact a project manager builds during the planning phase. 
 
 Most projects capture requirements in this artifact. The project plan you build for Sauce and Spoon will be a critical part of your project management portfolio.
 It will demonstrate your ability to break a large project into a set of achievable, smaller tasks. 
 
 Before we get started, let's review the project scenario. Sauce and Spoon is a small but growing chain of restaurants with five locations. They've hired Peta as 
 their first in-house project manager to launch the pilot of tabletop tablet menus at two of their locations. Throughout the course, you'll observe Peta as she works
 to complete this project in-scope, on time, and within budget.
 
 You'll create project management documents based on the scenario, just as you would if you were the project manager. As you work through these materials, you may
 want to take notes about project details in order to complete some of the activities.
 
 The project management documents you create will help you practice your skills by applying them to a real-world scenario. These documents will also provide you
 with a portfolio to speak to during a future job interview. In the next group of activities, you'll analyze conversations, emails, and other forms of documentation 
 to build out a project plan. As you continue on, you'll identify tasks and milestones within the Sauce and Spoon tablet rollout. 
 
 You'll also demonstrate effective communication techniques, like asking the right questions and practicing empathy, which will help you make accurate time estimates
 for each task.
