Practicing empathy as a program manager


Empathy can be really important with project management because a lot of times, you're dealing with a lot of different potential work styles and communication
styles with various members of the team and various stakeholders, so you have to learn how to communicate with those different styles and potentially tailor your
messaging to different audiences. 

It's really important to be able to understand how different people may feel, how they may like to be communicated to, so that you can ensure that you are 
communicating your project goals and your impact in a very impactful way. 

So one example where I've had to practice empathy as a program manager is when I was leading a project with about five different people on the program team. We were
running into some issues with some missed deadlines, actually. I had to end up communicating with one of the project team members just to try to understand what
was going on, why were some of the deadlines being missed?

Ultimately, we discovered that there were some things personally that were going on that we ultimately ended up having to re-shift some of our resources and get
help from other teammates. So that's an example of just trying to meet people where they are.

Understand that there's lots of things outside of work that are also going on, and sometimes you can adjust your timelines and your deadlines as needed or get help
from other team members along the way. When you are negotiating task estimates, I think a really good thing to do right from the beginning is just ask a lot of
questions. 

Just talk to different people on the team. Maybe you're even new to the team and you want to get some different experience from folks who've been on the team a little
longer, and just try to figure out if there are any examples of past projects that are similar to the one that you're leading.

Try to see if there are other projects that may be a little different but have a different timeline. I think that can really help in the beginning. Just ask a lot of
questions and collect as much data and information as you can from the beginning.
