The three-point estimating technique

Estimating is a crucial aspect of project management. Project managers are expected to accurately estimate essential elements of the project, such as costs, scope, 
and time. There are many different estimation techniques that can be used, depending on what aspect of the project needs an estimate. Estimation techniques allow
project managers to provide better forecasts to stakeholders and clients and more accurately budget the funds and resources they need for project success. 


The three-point estimating technique can be used to help determine the most realistic time estimate for a task. It uses optimistic, pessimistic, and most likely
calculations, meaning calculations are based on the “best case” (optimistic), “worst case” (pessimistic), and most probable scenarios. 


Three-point estimation
In this technique, each task receives three estimates: optimistic, most likely, and pessimistic. Each of these three estimates is then associated with the
corresponding amount of time that task is expected to take.



See definitions: Optimistic
Assumes the best case scenario that issues will not occur
Most Likely
Assumes some issues might occur and based on how long the task usually takes under normal circumstances
Pessimistic
Assumes the worst case scenario that issues will definitely occur
The three-point estimating process

For each task, add a duration estimate in each category: optimistic, most likely, and pessimistic. You can get these estimates by doing research on the task or by
asking a task expert. As a best practice, add notes about the conditions that determine each estimate.




See detailed description:Optimistic = Vendor is well-qualified, 
has all the materials, and shows up 
on time; Staff shows up in time and 
successfully completes training within scheduled amount of time; 
All equipment works.
4 Hours





Most Likely = Vendor is qualified but might not have all the materials; 
Vendor is new and needs extra time 
to prepare; Extra training time has 
to be scheduled for absentee staff; 
Minor glitches with equipment; 
Training has to be rescheduled.
6 Hours





Pessimistic = Original vendor quits; 
New vendor has to be hired; 
Staff no-shows or turnover right before the training; Equipment isn’t delivered 
on time or doesn’t work; Training 
can’t happen until new equipment arrives.
6 Days





Determining a final estimate
To determine your final estimate—the estimate you’re going to use in your project plan—examine the optimistic and pessimistic timing, then compare it with the most
likely timing. Consider the conditions that are likely to exist while the task is being completed. Does it seem reasonable that the most likely time can be met? 
If your team has never completed this task before, or if dependencies for the task are unknown, then the final estimate should be closer to the pessimistic estimate.
If your team is familiar with the task and you’re able to confirm the conditions for an optimistic estimate, then the final estimate can be closer to the optimistic
estimate. Alternatively, simply use the most likely estimate, especially if the difference between the optimistic and pessimistic estimates is minimal (a few hours
or no more than one or two days). A good practice is to build in a “buffer” that accounts for risks that are likely but still keeps the project progressing at an
efficient rate.






Three-point estimation formulas
Some projects will require you to calculate specific numeric values for task time estimates. There are many online resources that provide more instruction for how
to calculate estimates, but we’ve provided two popular formulas: the Triangular Distribution and the Beta (PERT) Distribution.




For each formula: E is Estimate (the final estimate you’ll assign to the task), o = optimistic estimate, p = pessimistic estimate, and m = most likely estimate.

 E = estimate  (the final estimate) o = optimistic estimate m = most likely estimate P = pessimistic
The Triangular Distribution
The weight of each estimate in this equation is identical, which means the most likely case does not affect the final estimate more than the optimistic or 
pessimistic estimates.

E= (o+m+p) /3  Example o = 4 hours   m = 8 hours   p = 16 hours  E= (4 + 8 + 16) /3 E= 28 /3 E= 9.3 hours

The Beta (PERT) Distribution
The Beta (PERT) distribution is a weighted average. The most likely estimate receives a multiplier of four, while the overall divisor is increased to six. 

This method takes into account that the most likely case is more likely to occur, so it’s given more weight. The added weight is reflected in the multiplier of four.

Placing more weight on the most likely estimate increases the accuracy of the estimate. In most cases, the Beta (PERT) Distribution has been proven to be more
accurate than three-point estimating and is often used to calculate both cost and time estimates.

E= (o+4m+p) /6  Example E= (4 + 4(8) + 16) /6 E= 52 /6 E= 8.7 hours
