Time estimation: Asking the right questions

In the last few videos, you learned how to identify project tasks and milestones by analyzing project documents, conducting online research, and having conversations
with teammates, stakeholders, and subject matter experts. 

In this video, I'll review some strategies for getting accurate time estimates for your tasks and milestones. Then, in the upcoming activities, you'll analyze
supporting materials and apply strategic thinking to get estimates for the Sauce and Spoon tablet project. Let's get started.

Time estimation is a prediction of the total amount of time required to complete a task. Providing time estimates for each task gives you a better sense of the
overall project timeline in relation to individual deadlines and milestones. Knowing the estimated duration of a task also lets you easily track its progress so you
can recognize if the task is likely to go over the estimated time. That way, you'll be better able to project the timeline and quickly make any necessary adjustments. 

As I mentioned earlier, you won't necessarily be an expert on the projects you manage initially. On top of reviewing project documentation and doing some research,
you'll also need the help of your team and other subject matter experts to fill in some of the details and provide input.

Asking the right questions can help your experts get to the most accurate time estimates possible.

Let's go over some strategies for getting accurate time estimates from your task experts. First, check their understanding of the task. Ask the expert to explain all 
the detailed steps involved in the task. You won't include every detail in the project plan, but by having the expert do this, you're getting them to thoroughly think
through the work involved before providing you with an estimate.

Next, ask for estimates of the sub-steps and make note of them. Then add them all up and compare that total with the experts estimate of the total time needed to 
complete the task.

Another strategy is to discuss the assumptions the expert might be making when they give you an estimate. For example, what equipment do they assume they'll have?
What kind of supplies? How many people do they assume are working on the task? What are their assumptions about the skill and experience level of the people working
alongside them on the task?

Then ask the task expert to consider how likely it might be that all or some of these assumptions might not work out and how that might impact their estimate. One
important detail to clarify here is the difference between an effort estimate and a total duration estimate. An effort estimate only takes into account the actual
time it takes to complete a task.

A total duration estimate accounts for the effort, estimation, and any other factors, like getting approvals, prep work, testing, and so on. For example, imagine 
one of your tasks is designing and launching the check out page for the tablet.

The effort estimation for designing the page might be eight hours, which is the amount of time it takes to mock up and implement the design, but the total duration
of the task includes testing, feedback, and approvals needed to launch. That means that the total time estimate for the check out page is actually more than eight
hours. 

Finally, another strategy for getting accurate estimates is to compare the expert's estimates against the actual time spent on similar tasks in previous work. Ask
the expert to think about a similar project they worked on and describe what was different and what was the same. Ask how long that project took and whether 
thinking about that project changes their estimate all.

Okay, let's review what we just covered. Time estimation is a prediction of the total amount of time required to complete a task, providing estimates for each task
gives you a big picture sense of the project timeline in relation to individual deadlines and milestones, and asking the right questions can help your experts get
to the most accurate estimate possible. Try checking their understanding of the task or ask for estimates of the sub-steps. Discuss assumptions and compare the
expert's estimates against the actual time spent on similar tasks in previous work.
