So far in this course, you've had the chance to practice communicating about key aspects of the project like deliverables, scope, timeline, and budget. 

In this video, I'll discuss how to communicate project problems. In the upcoming activity you'll learn how to synthesize a project problem into a one-sentence summary
for a senior stakeholder. Combining information from multiple sources like conversations, emails and documents is a skill that project managers use frequently. 

It's helpful to reference when leading conversations and meetings, writing documentation and emailing team members regarding the project. Strong communication involves
combining information and potential employers may want you to prove you're capable of doing so effectively. The problem summary you'll write in the upcoming activity
will be included in the practice email you'll create later on.

Okay, let's discuss project problems. Every project has its problems, and communicating those problems is a part of your job as a project manager. Usually project 
problems are small enough to address within the immediate project team, but occasionally you'll need to escalate problems and propose solutions to a senior
stakeholder for their input and guidance on next steps. 

Stakeholders shouldn't have to read different project documents or consult multiple email threads in order to understand the project problem. Instead, it's your
responsibility as a project manager to synthesize relevant information from multiple sources into a coherent summary that clearly communicates the issue.

To write an effective one sentence overview of a problem, you'll need to synthesize information from various sources like emails, presentations, meeting notes and
more. 

Synthesizing requires gathering information from multiple sources and using those points to help form your own analysis. For example, it wouldn't be very helpful to
send a stakeholder a link to your project plan, because it doesn't give them a thorough understanding of what the problem entails. 

To determine which information is relevant and belongs in a one to two sentence overview for your stakeholders, ask yourself, "How can I communicate a decision in a
way that makes it easy for them to decide?" For instance, let's say the project plan has five tasks overdue because of supplier delays, and this may ultimately 
affect the final deliverable of your project. You've been working on creating a few solutions to mitigate this issue. Rather than sending your stakeholders a link to
the plan and pointing out all of the overdue tasks, you might summarize the problem by telling them a number of tasks have run past their due date because of supplier
issues. So we recommend hiring a second supplier to hit the deliverable date. Otherwise, we'll need to push the launch date back.

This way, you present the problem succinctly to your stakeholders and offer a solution. This allows stakeholders to agree with your solution, disagree with your
solution or provide one of their own. Either way, you've communicated the problem and proposed a solution, which is your role as the project manager. 

Let's review. Communicating project problems is a part of your job as a project manager. It's also your responsibility to synthesize relevant information from
multiple sources into a coherent summary that clearly communicates the issue. 

Synthesizing requires gathering information from multiple sources and using those points to help form your own analysis. In the upcoming activity, you'll practice
communicating project problems by writing your one to two sentence overview of a problem with Sauce &amp; Spoon tablet pilot. You'll write this overview using 
information you'll synthesize from supporting materials. 
