Introduction to the Sprint

As you learned earlier, Sprints, which we also called iterations, provide the whole rhythm for the team and is one of the five Scrum events. They allow us to get
feedback quicker, encourage team collaboration, and provide more focus for Scrum teams. 

Within a Sprint, the amount of work is planned based on the historical capacity of the team and is made ready for the Sprint Planning event. It might help to think
of each Sprint as a mini-project with planning, execution, delivery, closing, and a retrospective all wrapped into this bite-sized package. 

Sprints are so important to Scrum, that the other four Scrum events revolve around the Sprint. The Scrum Guide technically defines five events: the Sprint itself, 
Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, and the Sprint Retrospective. Throughout this section of videos, I'll share what the recommended duration, or timebox,
is for each of these events.

Timeboxes are an important concept in Scrum. Some examples of benefits are that they create a sense of urgency which will drive prioritization, provide a window
of focus which improves productivity, and they help the team develop a predictable rhythm to their work.

A Sprint's timebox can range anywhere from one to four weeks. How do you choose? Well, there are three considerations. First, think about what you expect the
frequency of changes to be. How often do you think your requirements might change? If you expect your project to have new requests popping up each week, you may
want to make your Sprint length one week, so that you can adapt more often. If the needs are more stable, perhaps longer will be just fine. 

Second, think about how much focus time your solution developers might need to build a Backlog item. If the baseline effort for most of your activities requires 
at least a week to create something valuable, then your Sprint length should be at least two weeks to give the team room to execute without feeling the crunch mode. 

Third, think about how much overhead goes into a delivery of your product. If your deliverable or solution requires a large review with many stakeholders or goes
through a rigorous testing and quality assurance process that takes several days, you should factor that into your Sprint length and choose a longer Sprint, such
as three or four weeks instead. 

Like most things in Scrum, there's no one-size-fits-all. If you set a Sprint length and decide it's too long or too short after a few Sprints, you can always change
it. For example, my current team has Sprints that are one week long because we expect a lot of change and new requests coming into our Backlog every week, but often 
our work takes longer than a week to complete. We're currently reflecting on that contradiction and considering changing our Sprint length to two weeks. 

Great. Now you know more about defining the Sprint. In the next few videos, we'll discuss the relationship between the other Scrum events and the Sprint. We'll
start with the events leading up to the Sprint, conducting Sprint Planning, and compiling the Sprint Backlog
