The Daily Scrum and Sprint Review


As a refresher, one of the principles from the Agile manifesto states: the most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a Development
Team is face to face conversation. So in this video will discuss communicating with the team through two kinds of face to face events that occur during and after
the Sprint, the Daily Scrum and the Sprint Review. 

First, the Daily Scrum, which is sometimes referred to as stand up, is a time for the Scrum Team to synchronize and prioritize activities for the day. In 15 minutes,
and at the same time and place every day, each team member answers the following questions: What did I do yesterday that helped the Development Team, meet the 
Sprint goal? What will I do today to help the Development Team meet the Sprint goal? Do I notice any impediment that prevents me or the Development Team from 
meeting our goals? Daily stand ups should provide the Scrum Master with the opportunity to quickly unblock the team with little delay. 

And Daily Stand-ups are an opportunity to reinforce focus on the Sprint Backlog and Sprint Goal. The official Scrum Guide says that Daily Stand-ups must happen 
every single day, though I will say I have had successful Scrum Teams who meet less frequently than that.

My current Scrum Team has a one week Sprint and we have stand-ups two days during the week. We found that this works really well for us. Try it out and see what
works best for your team. At the closing of a Sprint, the team will complete another event, known as the Sprint Review.

This Sprint event is crucial to the Scrum Pillars of inspection and adaptation, and demonstrates the values of openness, courage, and respect. Let's discuss what 
I mean by that.

The Sprint Review is a meeting with the entire Scrum Team where the product is demonstrated in order to determine which aspects are finished and which aren't. 
During a Sprint Review, the Development Team and Product Owner will play a heavy role in this inspection and discussion. They will also cover an exploration of 
which items should be considered done in the Product Backlog, and they'll demonstrate and inspect the product. 

Sprint Reviews should be really fun and uplifting. The Sprint Review is when the team gets to impress each other with the cool things they've accomplished over
the last 1 to 4 weeks. These time-boxed meetings should not exceed four hours and they're a good opportunity for the team to practice the Scrum Values of openness
and respect, as they give feedback about the completed work. Often, some of the greatest product ideas come out of the Sprint Review. Let's look at an example.

With the new service, the Virtual Verde team needs to launch their new website page featuring home office plants. Let's imagine that the Scrum Team has a marketing
specialist on the team. Remember Scrum Teams are cross-functional. During the August Sprint Review meeting one of the Sprint Backlog items was to create a launch
email to send out to their existing Plant Pals corporate customers about their brand new adventure.

During the Sprint Review meeting, the team gets a demo of the email. They pull up the email onto the shared screen and give the specialist feedback right there in
the meeting, such as: I love that opening line, it really draws them in; let's make the opening image bigger; can we make it easier for the recipient to forward
this to their friends; Can we make this text shorter? It's a bit long. 

This group inspection of a work product from the team has many benefits that go way beyond just a better marketing email. First, it makes the feedback as immediate 
as possible. No need to wait for people to review on their own and sending their feedback later on. Feedback and adjustments might be made right there in the 
meeting. 

Second, everyone has a voice, leading to a shared sense of ownership of every aspect of their product launch. Last, but not least, the team learns more about 
how their marketing teammate does their job, leading to greater trust and understanding between team members. 

The Sprint Review is a time for the team to demonstrate what they've accomplished. The Sprint Review is also where team members unveil what is called the Product
Increment. The Product Increment is what's produced after a given Sprint and is considered releasable. 

A product is releasable when the team has developed a Minimum Viable Product, which has a set of implemented features or requirements. A Minimum Viable Product 
is a version of a product with just enough features to satisfy early customers. 

At the end of each Sprint, only items that have met the definition of done are considered part of the Product Increment. Anything that is not done goes back to 
the Product Backlog. Great work. We've now covered the activities that happened during a Sprint to ensure that the team is focused and is building valuable 
solutions. In the next video, we'll discuss another important meeting that takes place on a Scrum Team: the Sprint Retrospective. Meet you there.
