Communicating in different ways

In this video, I'll share more tips for communicating with your team and introduce you to tools that will help you and your team communicate even more effectively.

As the project manager, you are the one who connects your team to the information they need. Throughout the project, you'll serve as the main resource for your 
team when it comes to communicating and clarifying goals, action items, progress, and updates.

It's important to make sure that you are carrying information forward consistently and coherently so that everyone understands what the current state of the project
is and what happens next. 

Teams communicate in a myriad of ways. Though project managers are constantly communicating through check-ins and meetings, project documents such as project plans
including schedules, trackers, and meeting notes, they're also hubs for team communication. It's your responsibility to be clear about how those documents get used, 
who has access to those documents, and how often the documents get updated. Of course, in addition to those responsibilities, you'll also have to field e-mails, 
instant messages, and attend meetings.

All of these things are critical in driving a project forward. As a project manager, you are the one who coordinates incoming and outgoing information. You connect 
individuals to the necessary details and context and track who needs to receive what information and when.

You'll need to communicate certain information to your team multiple times and in various ways. Some people learn by listening, some people learn by watching, and
others learn by doing. Communicating in various ways ensures that you're sharing knowledge to your team in a format that's digestible and easy for them to take in.

Your team will have a lot of tasks to focus on. Be proactive and reinforce important information multiple times, in multiple ways so that no one is left out of the
loop. There are many tools for communicating with your team to make it easy to keep in contact and be on the same page throughout the duration of the project.

Some of these include: e-mail and messaging, in-person meetings, video conferencing, and work management and collaboration tools. Your organization might have some
of these tools in place already, or you might have the opportunity to select some for a project. In either case, it's good to be familiar with what's out there. 
