A project manager’s role within a team


Earlier you learned more about the responsibilities of a project manager. And while it might seem like a lot to keep track of, it's important to know that you, as
the project manager won't need to do everything on your own. 

Let's discuss the role of the project manager and how that role relates to other roles within the project team. It's easier to hear the term manager and immediately 
think of your boss. But a project manager is not often the direct manager of the people working on a project team. Here, we're discussing the project manager as
someone who manages the tasks of a project.

But what does that really mean, right? Well, although you might have a few teammates working with you on a project, you're probably not their day-to-day boss. With
the help of your team, you can get a lot more done together. 

Everyone on your team will have their own set of roles and responsibilities. And you'll come together to ensure that everyone is able to do their part to advance the
project. Each person will be an expert on their portion of the project, but no one will be an expert on every aspect of the project, and honestly, neither will you.

For instance, the graphic designer will focus on graphic design, but probably won't be an expert on copywriting. Similarly, you'll be an expert on project management,
but may not be an expert on marketing. Here's another way to think about it. Imagine that you're organizing a camping trip. You might be the person in charge of 
planning the trip, but that doesn't mean you have to be a camping expert.

Maybe you've never been camping before, but your partner grew up spending every summer by the campfire. In that case, you might assign them the task of picking out
the right number and style of tents for your group. So, in this example, you are planning the trip by giving your partner the job of finding the right number of
tents and the right size tents to make sure everyone is covered. 

You aren't doing the research or the task yourself, but you're making sure that things are getting done. It's similar in the workplace. As the project manager, you
won't be an expert in every project role, and that's okay. As we said, your job isn't to be the expert on everything. 

Instead you're responsible for guiding your team and making sure that they have the support that they need in order to complete the project. So how does a project
manager go about doing that? Let's discuss using a few more examples of the required responsibilities you might find in a job listing.

First, you'll need to hold all team members accountable for their assigned tasks. Managing tasks will help you hold your team members accountable by giving them 
ownership over specific pieces of the project. Second, you'll need to ensure that issues and risks are tracked and visible, and be able to establish escalation paths.

Now by escalation paths, I mean that you should know how you will communicate risks to the right people at the right time. Third, you'll need to understand and help
teammates adopt the right workflows and project management styles. 

As the project manager, you'll likely have the best idea of which style is best for the work. It's your job to ensure that the team adheres to that style and the
other systems in place. And fourth, you'll need to collaborate with other teams at the organization to meet the requirements based on project, scope, schedule, and
budget. In other words, a project may affect not only your team, but other teams at an organization, as well as, say, the marketing or the finance team. 

So you'll need to work with those teams to ensure that everyone is happy with the project outcomes. You'll learn more about working with other stakeholders in a
later course. Catch all that? Let's recap. You learned that a project manager isn't always the direct manager of each member of the project team. 

Rather, they're responsible for guiding those people and ensuring they have the support they need to complete the project. Now that you have a good sense of the
way that a project manager fits into the project team, let's move a little bit ahead, where we'll discuss the types of skills that a project manager needs to succeed.
