I hope you enjoyed that last story because for me, it's always helpful to hear about someone else's career path. Maybe you even noticed a few parallels between
their career path and your own, or you felt inspired to pursue a specific area of project management.

So far we've discussed the types of project management roles you'll be qualified for, and how to search for them. Earlier, we discussed the value that project
managers bring to their teams and their organizations. Now let's learn more about the roles and responsibilities of a project manager. 

Earlier you learned that project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and achieve the desired
outcome. How does that actually happen? That's where you come in. Project managers usually follow a process that involves planning and organizing, managing tasks, 
budgeting, and controlling costs, and other factors, so that the project can be completed within the approved budget and timeframe.

Let's break these down into examples of responsibilities that you might find in a job listing for a project management role. We'll start with planning and 
organizing. One responsibility that falls under the umbrella of planning and organizing is making use of productivity tools and creating processes. 

During the planning and execution of a project, you might need to use certain tools and develop processes to improve information sharing across the team; you 
may also need to create plans, timelines, schedules, and other forms of documentation to track project completion, and you'll usually need to maintain those
documents throughout the entirety of the project. The next task is budgeting and controlling costs, and other factors. 

As the project is underway, changes to the plan and budget are bound to come up. Believe me. This will require you to monitor and manage the budget, track issues
and risks as they arise, and manage quality by mitigating those issues and risks. One way to do this is by removing unforeseen barriers that come up. Now, by 
barriers, we mean things that can get in the way of project progress. 

For example, if your teammates lack the resources needed to complete a task, you might identify that issue, or barrier upfront, escalate the issue to a stakeholder,
and work to secure the resource so your team can move forward. Another huge piece of the project manager's role is managing tasks.

A project task is an activity that needs to be accomplished within a set period of time by you, your team, or your stakeholders. Keeping track of tasks is a great
way to help manage the team's workload and ensure that things are getting done. 

Keeping track of tasks is also a great tool for demonstrating progress to people outside the immediate team, like your stakeholders. Back when I was a program
manager in Student Development here at Google, one of our goals was to create pathways for students who identify with communities that are underrepresented in 
the technology industry. 

A large part of my day-to-day responsibilities involved working with two separate engineering teams to create our technical curriculum. To manage the tasks 
associated with this project, I created separate project trackers for each team that outline the vision for the curriculum. These trackers kept both teams in the
loop about the timeline for delivery, the categories and subcategories for work, and the team members assigned to each task, I also made sure to update our 
stakeholders every step of the way. 

By actively managing tasks through out the project lifecycle, I was able to keep tabs on everyone's work and efficiently inform stakeholders, which allowed us
to achieve our project goal with minimal issues. Nice job. 

Now you should be able to describe the roles and responsibilities of a project manager. Coming up, we'll discuss a project manager's role within the extended team,
including how to work alongside the people tasked with executing the project. 
