Working with cross-functional teams


As a project manager, you will likely work with cross-functional teams. A cross-functional team
includes team members who have different backgrounds, types of expertise, and job functions.
Even though these team members have different skill sets, occupy different roles, and may
even work in different departments, they are all working towards a common goal: the
successful completion of your project.


Sometimes the members of a cross-functional team are referred to as “T-shaped professionals.”
They are skilled in how to collaborate and innovate with those in different job functions and
across different departments, but they also contribute their own specific areas of expertise.
Each member of a cross-functional team has their own unique perspective and experience,
bringing different ideas and strategies to the project.
Let’s explore each of these ideas in more detail.


Clarify goals
When working with cross-functional teams, it is important to ensure that each member of the
team understands their role, how they support each other, and the common goals of the
project. It is vital to set clear goals for the team and make sure that the team understands those
goals. 


Be direct and concise, avoiding extraneous details and explanations. When
communicating task or project goals, make sure you define key items, such as budget,
deadlines, quality requirements, or important resources. Ensure your team members
understand task and project goals by encouraging them to ask questions and clarify
information. It will be up to you to continuously check in with your team to make sure they’re all
moving towards their goals, staying on track, and completing quality work.


Cross-functional teams may work in different departments, be in different physical locations, and have different
leadership, but all team members work together with the project manager to support the
current project. Your project may be competing against other priorities, so communicating
clearly and often with your team—and vice versa—helps you identify any potential issues or
concerns before they arise.



Get team members with the right skills
Making sure you have team members with the correct skill sets for each of the project functions
is critical. If you are building an airplane and you’ve got five engineers but no mechanics, you
are missing a key element of your cross-functional team. As the project manager, you must
help ensure that your team has the right people with the right skill sets needed for the project
to succeed. Later in this program, we will discuss some tools you can use to help you identify
the skill sets needed to accomplish your project tasks.



Measure progress
Showing your team how much they have accomplished helps keep them motivated. Take the
time to measure and communicate the project’s progress across the cross-functional team. This
helps everyone see the full picture and recognize their impact on the project. You can measure
progress in many ways, including meeting key milestones, completing project tasks, and
meeting project goals on time and within budget. Regularly communicate with your team
members to check on their progress.

Ask them if they anticipate being finished on time. If not,
ask how you can help them succeed. Keep track of the team’s progress throughout the project
by documenting when tasks and goals are completed, and let your team members know if the
project is on track or not. Make sure you communicate successes, delays, or issues, to the team
so they know how the project is progressing. Keeping everyone informed is essential to the
project’s success.



Recognize efforts
Sometimes, when you work with cross-functional teams, there are certain skills that get
recognized more than others. A mechanic could get accolades for coming up with the solution
to a problem within the project, while the finance member who sourced the funding might be
forgotten. 


As a project manager, it is your job to make sure that each member of your
cross-functional team recognizes the value of their efforts each step of the way. You have
learned the importance of building relationships with stakeholders, and building relationships
with your cross-functional team members is just as important. Learning what makes your team
members feel supported, giving and taking feedback, and being mindful of each individual's
background, personal identifiers, and work style can help mediate some of the differences
among team members.




Key takeaway
Being able to communicate clearly with team members, clarify the goals of the project, get team
members with the right skills, measure team progress, and recognize team members’ efforts is
an important part of your role as the project manager, and is key to your project’s success.
