Cultivating a continuous improvement mindset


Products Operations Manager is a really diverse role. Not only do we work with engineers, we work with the product, we work with legal, but we're really the voice
of the customer. 

And so we have a really unique position where we get to take customer feedback, whether that's coming in from a support channel, and then be able to kind of work
with product to build a solution. Process improvement is looking at data to understand how we can make something more effective or cost efficient.

When we work on projects, we're always taking a look at how we're managing things to see if we can be better. One example I can give is just taking notes—seems 
super simple, but a lot of times what will happen is notes get taken, and we forget to send it out again, we forget to send the email after so that people ar
e updated.

So we're constantly looking at new ways to do things like take notes. How do we organize the skills and the projects that we have? So that's part of the process
improvement is definitely looking at the tools at our disposal and seeing if there's something new. Continuous improvement's more a mentality that we have on the
team of constantly pushing ourselves, even if we feel like the product is at a good place to be better.

Working with technology, things are constantly changing, and so we have to have that mindset of continually trying to improve things. You can plan things out
perfectly, or what you think is perfect, and there's always going to be something to come up.

Once you get something out in the wild, people will use the product in ways that you didn't even think about, and so that's where that idea of continuous
improvement comes in. Because even when you think it's great, you need to be able to look at it, let your ego down, and be able to solve those problems once
you see how people are actually using it. 

It's critical to technology because it moves so fast. Things change so quickly. If we aren't constantly improving the things that we do or looking at the
processes that we have, we're going to get behind. We're always adding new features, and so those always make new problems for us to try to solve. 

If you believe that what you're trying to do is really for people, and you forget about the numbers, you forget about all of that stuff, you remember that your 
product is going to potentially make someone really happy or make someone potentially more successful in their business. 

Those are the kinds of things that really make me excited to work and puts away all of that frustration of the kind of lead up.
