The core skills of a project manager


Now that you've learned about the roles and responsibilities of a project manager, let's discuss the core skill sets that a project manager should bring to the role.
While there are lots of different skills a project manager can bring to their role, there are four specific skill sets that we think can help a project manager be
successful. 

Those are enabling decision-making, communicating and escalating, flexibility, and strong organizational skills. First, let's talk about enabling decision-making.
The ability to enable decision-making on the team, or gathering decisions from the appropriate leader, is crucial to keep projects on task and achieve their goals.

Lots of the day-to-day decisions within a project will likely fall to you and your teammates to discuss and agree on. You'll ensure that projects stay on schedule 
by gathering information from teammates and using those insights to help the team make informed decisions. 

You'll also make sure that those decisions are communicated to the necessary coworkers, whether that's the immediate team or company leaders. For example, you might
provide relevant data or feedback to help your teammates make an informed decision between choice A and choice B. The second skill is communicating and escalating.

As a project manager, you'll use your communication skills in just about everything you do. This might look like documenting plans, sending emails about the status
of the project, or holding a meeting to escalate risks or issues to stakeholders. 

The third skill is flexibility. As a project manager, knowing how to be flexible when changes are needed is key. Plans definitively will change, even with careful 
upfront planning. For example, maybe the goals of your company change, or maybe a member of your team unexpectedly takes a new position at another company. 

A good project manager knows that unpredictable moments like these are almost always guaranteed. A quote we love here at Google is, "The only constant is change," 
and that's true. By staying cool under pressure, you'll be able to adjust while helping your team stay calm, too. 

Finally, a successful project manager needs strong organizational skills. As you learned earlier, the role of a project manager requires using a lot of different
processes to keep the project on track. Having strong organizational skills means having the ability to organize these processes and the core elements of a project 
to ensure nothing gets lost or overlooked, which trust me, can and does happen.

To prevent this, you might decide to track daily tasks in a spreadsheet or send frequent status updates or reminders. There are many ways to stay organized and hone
your organizational skills, and we'll talk more about them throughout the program. 

To recap, decision-making, communicating and escalating, flexibility, and strong organizational skills are four core skill sets that are essential to successful
project management. You can continue to build on these skills by becoming familiar with industry knowledge that applies to most project management roles.

Knowledge of helpful tools and templates and familiarity with popular project management styles like Waterfall and Agile, can help you organize and document the
project throughout its lifecycle. We'll learn about these throughout this program. Hopefully, you feel better equipped to explain the core skills a project manager
should bring to the role. These skills really help enforce team morale and accountability for the tasks of a project.
