



I'm a program manager at Google Research. As a program manager at Research, I work to make sure that all of the teams I work with are on the same page. 

Whether that's product teams who are implementing the research or research teams who need to understand how to define their research agenda for future projects. 

A lot of what I do is effective communication and trying to create detailed documentation so that everyone can connect the dots. One thing that I've observed as
a program manager is a proliferation of documents, or what I like to call, "death by a thousand documents.

" So it becomes really important to have one master document where you centralize all the sub-documents or smaller docs that you might need to execute a project,
and then you can just go to the master document and find what you need, even if that lives somewhere else.

I can go into my master tracker and I can find the program charter, I can find the budget, I can find the agreed upon scope, any document that has approval
matrices, which is a list of all the approvals I need, things like that. If I can link out to everything from just one place, I know that I'll always be able to
start there and find what I need.

There's not a one-size-fits-all approach to project or program management. You might need a risk management plan for one project but not another, and there might
be some other type of documentation you need. 

Really, keeping everything organized and starting from one place is the most helpful tip I can give. The broader trend in program management or project management
documentation is that you don't just take one pass at a document, you don't finish your project plan or your project charter in one go, you have to constantly
return to it, revise it, and continue. It's living and breathing document. 

The more detailed you can be in your documentation, the fewer iterations you're going to need to go through later on because they're more likely to get things
right the first time.
