Data visualization tools

Data visualization is the graphical representation of information to facilitate understanding. That can include graphs, maps, and tables, to name a few.
Project managers use these visual representations for a few reasons. They're useful for communicating data to others because they help filter information by
focusing the audience on the most important data points and insights. 

Visualizations are also a more efficient way to summarize information because they condense long ideas and facts into a single image or representation, and
crucially, they help the viewer make sense of and remember the information being presented. Visualizations help aid information processing and enhance memory.
It plays an active role in the storytelling process by helping communicate project insights to your audience.

Let's go into some familiar types of data visualizations that project managers use throughout the entire life cycle of the project. First, let's discuss a common
data visualization tool used when running the project: a dashboard. A dashboard is a type of user interface, typically a graph or summary chart, that provides a 
snapshot view of your project's progress or performance. 

It acts as a centralized location for project stakeholders to draw quick insights. It can display a tight summary of metrics, stats, and key performance indicators,
or KPIs. A KPI is a measurable value or metric that demonstrates how effective an organization is at achieving key objectives. They serve as a great aid in helping
your team and stakeholders understand if you're on the right track. In other words, they signal if you're making progress to reach your success criteria. 

In your dashboard, you may have a summary of your top KPIs or metrics and your progress to date. For instance, if one of your objectives is for your project to reach
a 95% customer satisfaction score at the end of a three-month period, you may track that goal via thousands of customer satisfaction surveys. Rather than displaying
a spreadsheet of each response, a dashboard is a good place to summarize those results and showcase the average customer satisfaction score to see how you are pacing
to your goal. 

Similarly, you could also include other key KPIs that signify progress, like a countdown that shows the number of days until project launch or the percentage of the
number of issues resolved. Many project dashboards may also summarize project plans, documents, and reports in one place and provide a visual of the status of each
of them. 

For example, if your project plan has hundreds of tasks with varying degrees of completion, your dashboard may summarize the amount of tasks or milestones completed
at that point in time and the percentage of tasks that are in progress, complete, or not started. 

As you may start to notice, dashboards are great visualizations for efficient status updates because they enable you to group, summarize, and highlight top project
data points.

Another visualization that does this is one that we mentioned earlier: a burndown chart. A burndown chart is a line chart that measures the time against the amount 
of work done and the amount of work remaining. The outstanding work is usually on the vertical axis, with the time visualized horizontally.

This serves as a strong visualization to help the team picture the amount of tasks left to complete. Similar to line charts, column charts are another popular 
graph used to signal project performance and progress.

Column charts are useful for comparing different activities or comparing progress over time. For instance, you can show different outputs, like the number of
customers and the number of plants delivered, year-over-year, to demonstrate growth in change.

Pie charts are useful when showing the composition of something or the parts-to-whole relationship. All of these simple charts offer visualizations that enable
you to draw quick insights and help tell stories. There are many more in the following reading that I recommend checking out and practicing. Before that, there is
a final visual tool that I want you to know about, which is an infographic. 

Infographics are visual representations of information, such as data or facts, and are typically in the form of what we call at Google a "one-pager" or a
"one-sheeter." The difference is that they're typically concise summaries of that data. This is often done primarily through graphics or drawings, emphasizing
the biggest points with added text for further explanation. 

Use infographics to present complex information quickly, professionally, and clearly, especially when you may not be present to share all the details yourself. 
Infographics should be able to communicate strong information without the need for extra support and explanation. These are just a few examples of data
visualization in project management.

Remember, you'll want to use visuals to demonstrate and illustrate situations like changes over time, frequency, relationship correlations, and to analyze value
and risks. 

Another important tip is to make sure that these visualizations are accessible. As we mentioned before, you'll want to ensure that your data story is understood
by everyone. Check out the resources tab on some of the best practices for accessible visualizations and communications. 
