1. Project summary

Before the meeting, Tessa fills in the basic project information:
a. Goals and objectives
b. Duration
c. Team members
d. Methodology

Tessa also includes links to key documents including the project charter, production plan, and scene requirements.




2. Key accomplishments
Tessa wants to begin the meeting on a positive note by encouraging the team to list out what went well. They are most proud of the anti-gravity effects they added
to the scene, as well as the collaborative dedication that they each put into the process. The team also thanked Tessa for their meticulous note taking and 
project documentation.





3. Lessons learned
The team also discusses things that need improvement, as well as instances when they were fortunate that things went in their favor. They missed some
opportunities early on to research what life in space is really like, and that slowed down the process of developing the right effects. 
The deadline for the scene also shifted out one month, which was a lucky break for their timeline.





4. Action items
After the team lists out their lessons learned, Tessa asks them to turn their lessons into action items. They agree to create a list of space experts to consult 
with on an ongoing basis, and they want to book time in a reduced gravity aircraft so they can experience weightlessness first-hand. Two team members volunteer 
to work on these action items.






5. Future considerations
Now, Tessa asks the team to think about the next scenes on their list, and the risks that could come up and impede their success. The team identifies specific
considerations for their research process, timeline, and team dynamic. Tessa notes these as items for further mitigation plans.






6. Resources and notes
Since this retrospective will serve as a reference for how the project went and what it accomplished, Tessa adds the project notes which the team said they
found valuable. They also include the names of vendors and software that the team used to create the special effects.
