Finding the perfect role


Let's discuss how to search for a job in the project management field. It's no secret that job searching can be a challenge. Even the most detailed, specific 
job listings can leave you wondering what the company is really seeking in a candidate. Don't worry, we've all been there, and we're here to help you sort through 
the lingo and the confusion. 

The more job listings you find, the more buzzwords you'll likely notice, too— words like "data-driven," "team player," "self-starter." Understanding all the
buzzwords in job listings will help figure out if a job is right for you. Up to now, we've discussed project management as a role, but many companies actually list 
it as a skill. 

Here's some more good news. You'll soon be qualified for a position as a project manager, and a position that lists project management as a skill. Here's the even
better news. If you have the skills to manage projects, you'll be qualified for program manager or operational roles that require you to manage an end-to-end system
or department, too, which asks for the same skill set.

Now, let's check out different types of jobs that use your project management skills. When job hunting, keep your options open. As I just mentioned, you don't have
to limit yourself to just project manager titles. There's lots of other titles you're qualified for, too. You'll know what's a good fit for you by reading the job
descriptions, so cast a wide net. 

Depending on the field you choose, you might find roles like Operations Manager, Program Manager, Operations Associate, or Project Assistant. All of these could be 
a great fit for your skills. For example, let's say you're searching a job board for project management roles when you notice a Community Operations Manager role for
a small city open up. 

The job title isn't project manager, but you'll notice that the job functions match your skill set, and your years of experience also match the job requirements.
The job description may include a list of required skills like organizational management, strong planning and communication skills, budget preparation and monitoring.

Sound familiar? Maybe you'll even start to notice that the job's responsibilities seem like tasks you've covered in this course, like creating monthly status reports,
helping to implement new and necessary technologies, tracking work plans and performance metrics, assisting other members of the operations team on given projects,
and ensuring timely responses to requests for information. 

These duties are nearly a perfect match for your project management skills, and there are plenty more listings like these two. How great is that? The skills that go
into project management are used in all kinds of roles and professions. Believe it or not, we've all worked with or learned from a project manager at some point in
the past. 

Can you guess who that is? It's your teachers! Think about it. Everything that goes into being a teacher takes project management skills: Designing a curriculum
that's accessible to students with unique needs; managing a budget; communicating with others like parents, department heads, or school admins; developing 
processes to make things run efficiently in the classroom; and so on.

For example, when I went for my first interview at Google, I highlighted my experience as the founder and advisor to a student leadership group. I told them about
how I assembled and led a team of 20 students to plan and execute events like fundraisers, community gatherings, and academic assemblies for over 300 students 
during the academic year. 

I even kind of surprised myself, looking back at how much relevant project management experience I had. Now, I'm sure you'll think back on your own experiences
and feel the same thing. One more thing to call out is networking. Networking is when you meet other people in a professional setting with the goal of learning,
sharing knowledge, and creating new business connections.

This plays a big role in job hunting, so it is a great tool to start learning and perfecting. The skills you learn here will prepare you for all kinds of project
management jobs. Knowing how to search for jobs will make it even easier to match those skills with the best opportunities for you.
