From certificate to career success


Now that you have a general understanding of what a project manager does, let's focus on the types of jobs that you may be qualified for after completing this 
program.

To start, I've got a question for you. How many open roles do you think are out there for project managers? Hint: The answer is a very big number. Project managers 
are in high demand.

In 2017, a study by the Project Management Institute found that by the year 2027, employers will need 87.7 million people filling project management-aligned roles. 
According to that same study, the industries with the most growth are manufacturing and construction, information services and publishing, management and professional
services, finance and insurance, utilities, and oil and gas. 

Project management plays a big part in helping all of these industries grow. In some industries, you will find the term "project manager" grouped with a more 
industry-specific qualifying word. For example: "construction project manager" or "IT project manager," or "engineering project manager." Don't worry. These are
all still project manager roles—they're just specific to an industry.

And it's important to keep in mind that the skills you learn in one industry can be applied to another industry. New projects are popping up every single day.
Across all industries, we noticed that new technology is introduced, which leads to processes changing and a need to manage those processes. So all kinds of 
companies need people like you who can tackle a variety of projects from start to finish, to help them navigate these changes.

By now, you might have noticed that you already have some of those skills, like organizing or planning an event, problem-solving, or even managing a budget, and 
you use them effectively in your everyday life. Reflect on some of those skills we mentioned earlier and ask yourself, what are some of the parts of project
management that you're drawn to? While you may not have the answer just yet, thinking about these things can help you find suitable roles later.

As you keep going in this program, try to keep track of the lessons and activities you prefer and the ones you didn't like as much. This will help you narrow your 
choices as you search through job boards later. 

The beauty of project management is that you don't need to be an expert on a focused technical topic— you just need to be able to manage projects. You could be a 
construction or technology project manager, or you could enter the healthcare industry and work in patient management. You could also enter the energy sector and
act as an environmental project manager. The possibilities are almost endless.

What's equally exciting is that you could even end up with a completely different title altogether. For instance, there are roles that entail a sequence of 
ongoing projects that are considered programs or operations in the industry.

In this case, the role may not be described as a project manager, but instead something a little more evergreen, like "operations manager" or "program manager."
Other titles that might make sense for you can include "operations assistant," "project assistant," "project coordinator," and "program assistant." When it comes
to job duties, your responsibilities might change depending on the type of company you choose.

For example, the workload and specific tasks at a small agency will be different from those at Google. It's also important to keep in mind that as the world 
continues to change and evolve, so do industries and the job opportunities you'll find there. So be sure to cast a wide net. You'll be able to find more and more
jobs you're qualified for. 

In addition to being qualified for project management-related jobs, there's plenty of other roles or paths that may interest you. Internships can sometimes be a 
good place to start. An internship is a short-term way to get hands-on experience in an industry. Plus, internships are a great way to help boost your resume
and set yourself apart from other candidates. 

One of the key benefits of internships is that you get real work experience while simultaneously networking with people in that industry. It's a win-win. Now
some internships in your field might not technically be project manager roles, but a lot of roles are easily transferable. For example, something like an "events
manager intern" role can become a full-time project manager position later on.

Internships aren't great for everyone's lifestyle, but if you can make them work, they're a fantastic option. Another path you can take is contract work. Working
for companies on a contract means you'll work with them on a project-by-project basis, but you won't be a full-time employee. 

This kind of work is a great way to get your foot in the door and build your portfolio. Plus, it gives you the flexibility to try your hand at a few different
projects at once, depending on the commitment level required for that. Another benefit of contracting is that it lets you explore different kinds of companies 
and project types. 

Since it's a temporary position, you can explore what type of company is the best fit for you. Maybe you find you like working with a large or a small team, or 
you find you enjoy specific types of projects. And if you find a situation that suits you and the organization, your contract position might just lead to a
full-time position.

As you keep charging forward, try thinking about the type of job you might be interested in going after when we're done here. Every new topic you discover 
brings you one step closer to your first role in project management, and one step closer to where you want to be. 

In the next video, we'll learn how to identify and search for job titles best-suited for a project manager. 
