Delegating the details


As a project manager, you'll find that you're not actually the direct manager of people in their roles. The key soft skill to have here is around influence;
influencing without authority. 

It's the ability to be able to communicate with people and make sure that they understand your goals and objectives and take them along on a shared vision and 
shared journey. When I first became a project manager, one of the mistakes that I often made was trying to do everything for myself and not asking for help.

Over the course of the last couple of years, I've really learned how to delegate and work with others as part of a team to make sure that I'm effectively managing 
a project as a project manager regardless of whether I have management or authority over the project team, and allowing those SMEs to really do what they're
really good at. 

Delegating for me in my day-to-day role looks like this: I try to find subject matter experts or people that really enjoy doing a specific something that may not
actually be their role. One of the best pieces of advice I ever got from a mentor was around finding people in the organization that enjoy doing something and
delegating your work to them. 

That way you can focus on overall project or program management without having to get bogged down in the weeds by certain details that actually you might not 
enjoy doing or someone else really enjoys doing. Psychological safety is really important in teams because it brings diversity of thought to the table. One thing
that I'm really working on is making sure that we practice inclusive meetings.

An example of that could be in a meeting if you notice that one or two participants are usually quiet or don't speak up, try to encourage them to be a part of the
conversation. Even better, have a coffee with them before and ask them what they think of the upcoming topic. Encourage them to bring those ideas to the table. 

Having diversity of thought in the room is so important. Otherwise, you're going to end up with one person in the room constantly just bringing their thoughts and 
ideas to the table. That's not very diverse. One thing with psychological safety is this partnership with mentorship and sponsorship. To delegate, I make sure 
that I sponsor people. I make sure that I showcase their best quality work across the whole project team. It's really important for morale.

On the other side with mentorship, if there's a junior team member on a team that maybe doesn't have the experience or isn't as confident speaking up, I usually 
delegate smaller tasks to them to build up their confidence or delegate something that they might actually consider to be fun that's not in their normal day-to-day
work. Finding those unique balances is the best way to delegate and prioritize.
