Ethical and inclusive leadership

Leading a project team comes with the responsibility to create a psychologically safe environment for the people around you. Through ethical and inclusive
leadership, you can create a team culture that works for everyone and motivates the people around you to do their best work.

In this video, you'll learn the definitions of ethical and inclusive leadership. You'll also learn about the importance of fostering a culture of respect, creating
equal opportunity to succeed, and ways to invite and integrate diverse perspectives.

So what do ethical and inclusive leadership entail in a team and organization? Let's start with ethical leadership. Ethical leadership is a form of leadership that
promotes and values honesty, justice, respect, community and integrity. You promote ethical leadership by defining and aligning values within your team and
demonstrating how adhering to those values benefits the mission of the organization.

For an example of this, consider how work culture has evolved in recent years. Around the world, employees working for organizations of all kinds have been calling
on their employers to adopt ethical policy changes and to state their positions on current events.

Companies can demonstrate ethical leadership by creating forums where employees can raise their viewpoints, be heard and receive follow-ups from company leaders on 
employee concerns. Ethical leadership is closely tied to inclusive leadership. If ethical leadership's aim is to create forums where employees' concerns can be
heard, inclusive leadership aims to put what we've heard into action to create an environment that encourages. And empowers each and every member of our community.

That in turn leads to more innovation and better solutions. Here's how we think about inclusion here at Google. Inclusive leadership is when everyone's unique 
identity, background and experiences are respected, valued and integrated into how the team operates. These differences improve the team culture, collaboration, 
innovation and output. 

Inclusive leadership is related to diversity in that diversity is the set of differences each of us possesses, whether visible or invisible that gives us each a
unique perspective on the world and our work. Inclusion is what the team does with that diversity of thought and perspective.

At Google, we've identified three ways that managers can lead inclusively. These include fostering a culture of respect, creating equal opportunity to succeed and
inviting and integrating diverse perspectives. To foster a culture of respect, it's your job as a project manager to serve as a role model, set the tone for the
team and take action when needed. That means modeling the values of your organization, taking appropriate action if misconduct occurs. 

Creating an environment in which team members feel comfortable speaking up with concerns, and recognizing team contributions regularly. To create equal
opportunity to succeed, you should ensure that each person on the team has access to the information and resources they need to do their best work. You do 
this through regular communication, accessible documentation, and regular check-ins with the team to listen, share information, ask and answer questions and
provide support. As a project manager, you're in the perfect spot to identify work that might be a good fit for a person who really wants it, but who shies away
from asking for it.

Knowing an individual's aspirations will help you highlight these opportunities. Finally, to invite and integrate diverse perspectives, it's your role to 
cultivate a culture in which each team member's perspective can be openly shared, heard and integrated into work related decisions. You do this by creating a
sense of psychological safety on the team and by inviting teammates to share their thoughts, ideas and concerns, regardless of their role or rank on the team.

Developing ethical and inclusive leadership skills requires regular practice. So whether you're leading a project team of two, or 20, or 200, you should be 
diligent in building up your inclusive leadership skill set by creating an environment in which your team feels safe, heard and valued.

You can do this by fostering a culture of respect, creating equal opportunity to succeed and inviting and integrating diverse perspectives.
