Recap: Quality management concepts

You are learning to define quality in your projects. Quality is when the outlined requirements for the deliverable are fulfilled and meet or exceed the needs and
expectations of customers.


In this reading, we’ll review the four main concepts of quality management we discussed in the previous video: quality standards, quality planning, quality assurance,
and quality control.


1. Quality standards provide requirements, specifications, or guidelines that can be used to ensure that products, processes, or services are fit for achieving the 
desired outcome. These standards must be met in order for the product, process, or service to be considered successful by the organization and the customer. 
You will set quality standards with your team and your customer at the beginning of your project. Well-defined standards lead to less rework and schedule delays 
throughout your project.

2. Quality planning involves the actions of you or your team to establish and conduct a process for identifying and determining exactly which standards of quality are 
relevant to the project as a whole and how to satisfy them. During this process, you'll plan the procedures to achieve the quality standards for your project.

3. Quality assurance, or QA, is a review process that evaluates whether the project is moving toward delivering a high-quality service or product. It includes regular
audits to confirm that everything is going to plan and that the necessary procedures are being followed. Quality assurance helps you make sure that you and your
customers are getting the exact product you contracted for.											

4. Quality control, or QC, involves monitoring project results and delivery to determine if they are meeting desired results. It includes the techniques that are used
to ensure quality standards are maintained when a problem is identified. Quality control is a subset of quality assurance activities. While QA seeks to prevent 
defects before they occur, QC aims to identify defects after they have happened and also entails taking corrective action to resolve these issues.




Additional reading
To learn more about these concepts, check out these articles: 

What Are Quality Standards?

What Is a Quality Plan? 

Quality Assurance & Quality Control 	

