Interview tips from Googlers


How does one apply for their first job in project management? Your resume, make sure it doesn't have any typos or grammar issues. Definitely having anybody peer 
review it, like friends, family can go a long way. Then just reading it, reading it out loud, you'll catch a lot of grammatical and spelling errors that way.

A resume is your pitch. It's you're walking in, and you're explaining to somebody why you're the right person for the job. So the things that you call out on your
resume and your experience that you highlight on your resume shouldn't just be something generic that you copied and pasted from a website that describes what your
role should be doing. 

It should be the experience that you would share with somebody in person if you were trying to tell them why you can do the job that you're applying for. Your 
resume should highlight the experience that shows why you are valuable to the company that you're asking to hire you. For me when interviewing, it's super
intriguing to hear things that have failed and what you've learned from it, and how you apply those learnings going forward. 

You don't have a lot of projects management work experience when you just get started, but you have life experience. Life experience is actually what matters most
for program managers, because it is about people, and working with other people is what makes a project manager successful at their role. We want to know that
you fundamentally can come in and think about how to solve problems and get things done, regardless of how many times you may have done that in the past.

Another tip is when preparing for an interview, have the artifacts prepared that describe the difference you have made in your past experiences, your learnings
from those experiences, and how you have applied those going forward to prevent all the problems. I wrote down a large number of questions that could come up.

Tell me about a time when you worked through conflict. Tell me about a time when you exhibited leadership skills despite not being in a leadership position. 
Tell me about a time when you were behind on a project and had to communicate a challenge to a stakeholder.

I listed all those questions and then tried to write one or two sentences about each so that I was prepared when similar questions did arise, which they almost 
always will. It may sound cliche, but my tip would be just to be yourself. 

Try to highlight a lot of your organizational skills, your leadership skills, and some examples where you've been able to communicate well across different
audiences. Another example of what is useful for interviews is really to think about specific examples of projects.

Read lots of case studies that are available over the internet on projects that derailed and projects that went well. And what was done from the angle of the
program management to set things off in a direction that is correct, and to sort of solve some of the problems that people have encountered along the way. 

Learn all the time. Read as many articles as you can about project management. Listen to TED Talks, attend meetups, online meetups, of course, if you can. Make 
sure to immerse yourself in the language of the field that you want to join. You don't have to be very technical to be a software project manager, but you do 
need to understand what is it about.

Get some rest. And if you're an anxious person, I know I'm very anxious at times for interviewing. I was very anxious for my interviews here for Google. 
Going for a jog, or a run, or just going outside, just anything that can calm your nerves that you generally know that works for you.

I would say that is to try to be as calm as possible. Be genuine, be yourself. I typically don't get over-indexed on, overdressing, or overplaying a part, or 
pretending that you are what you aren't. Because at the end of the day, I just want to know how people think and how they'll function, and they'll be a good
team player.

We look for genuine people who want to do good work, that are positive people to work with; they're people who are good team players, and fundamentally can just
get stuff done.

Enthusiasm matters a lot. It matters more than knowledge, especially in junior positions. When we hire juniors, we're looking for potential. We are looking for 
people who would be motivated to learn and to grow. If you have that spark in your eyes for whatever is it that you're interviewing for, that will be visible to
whoever's talking to you.
