Pete: What makes an effective Scrum Master

The responsibility of the Technical Program Manager is to see the end-to-end execution of the programs for which they are responsible. Within the day-to-day, we 
use the Agile framework as a core part of our deliveries. It allows us to iterate on the process, and it allows us to deliver products to our users much faster than
traditional models. The Scrum framework is just a single implementation of the Agile methodology.

Scrum focuses on delivering rapid value to the customers and our users by working iteratively over short periods of time to deliver a product to our customers. At 
its core, Scrum is a self-organizing team, which means we bring individuals together. So it's important that when we bring these individuals together, everyone is
clear in the roles and responsibility that they lend to this team. So it requires that there be a leader, or a Scrum Master, who helps to ensure that we're always
working towards the same goal. What makes an effective Scrum Master is one that has the following qualities: first, you're a good teacher and communicator. 

This is important because you need to instill the Scrum values throughout the team. Secondly, a Scrum Master best leads the team when he or she is influential. 
In most cases, the Scrum Master does not have managerial responsibilities for the rest of the team, so it has to be through influence. And two key ways of doing this
is to ensure that the team is operating effectively, and second, ensuring that there is a culture of motivation within the team.

As a leader, you're also expected to give direction to the team and ensure that we're continuing to work towards the goals that we've set out to achieve during the 
Sprint. And by Sprint, it's a focused effort towards particular, well-defined goals, and it's like a burst of energy for the team to get us there.

I love the aspects of working with people and trying to come towards a common goal. It's not always easy, but it's always satisfying for me.
