Traits of an effective Scrum Master

We've already mentioned that in Scrum, the project manager is most likely playing the role of Scrum Master. So what exactly does a Scrum Master role entail? In 
this video, I'll further define what a Scrum Master is. Then I'll explain some of the differences and similarities between a Scrum Master and a project manager. 

The Scrum Master promotes and supports the Scrum process by helping everyone understand and implement Scrum. This includes its practices, rules, and values. My 
favorite way to describe the role of a Scrum Master is that they're responsible for helping the team be their very best. They can achieve this by coaching individuals
on the team to manage external forces, as well as maximizing the team's internal potential.

For example, let's say that Virtual Verde keeps getting error reports about the shopping cart feature on their new website page. The Scrum Master is there to notice
the pattern and help the team find a better solution, rather than just fixing one error at a time. Maybe a special test plan is needed or extra solution reviews for
that feature are needed before changes are released.

The Scrum Master's responsibilities include coaching team members on the Agile and Scrum practices, rules, and values and helping to find ways to manage the Product
Backlog effectively. The Product Backlog is the single authoritative source for things that a team works on. It contains all of the product features, product
requirements, and activities associated with deliverables to achieve the goal of the project.

The Scrum Master facilitates Scrum events such as Sprint Retrospectives, which happen at the end of every Sprint. The Scrum Master helps the team remove any blockers
to their progress, such as missing information or access to training or tools. The Scrum Master also prevents unhelpful interactions or interruptions coming from 
outside of the team.

At this point, you may be wondering, how am I going to do all of that? Well, you probably already have many of the traits that Scrum Masters need to execute these 
tasks. A Scrum Master is required to be organized and supportive as they lead. They're also facilitators, coaches, and great communicators. Let's find out how 
these traits are helpful in a Scrum Master's role. Scrum Masters must have good organizational skills that help them to effectively organize project artifacts
and manage Scrum events. 

Scrum Masters must be supportive leaders who focus on the needs of others and the needs of the team before their individual needs. They're not aiming to raise
themselves up as a manager of the team who bosses people around; rather, they're always asking questions like "How can I help?" or "What would help the team go 
forward on this project?" Scrum Masters facilitate productivity and collaboration. This is a critical skill to ensuring every team member's voice is heard and
that their input is addressed.

Scrum Masters must coach team members on Scrum theory and application. Coaching is a skill that encourages dialogue and discussion over simply giving the answers
directly.

Finally, Scrum Masters must be great communicators, particularly when it comes to stakeholders. Scrum Masters are experienced in engaging with diverse
stakeholders who may have competing perspectives and styles. A Scrum Master who can relate to many different types of people is a powerful and essential teammate
to have on a project.

You're probably wondering if the role of a Scrum Master differs from a traditional project manager. The answer is yes, the two roles can be quite different,
although they may be played by the same individual and require a similar skill set.

As their primary responsibility, the Scrum Master acts as a facilitator and a coach to the Scrum Team, and they need to make sure that they have enough time in 
the day to do this job first and foremost. If the company requires the management of many additional project management activities, then the team might hire
project managers who own that more traditional project management-oriented work. That work may include things like budget management, risks spreadsheets, or
Gantt charts. 

But as I've said, it's common for traditional project managers to take on the role of a Scrum Master. They rely heavily on things like decision making,
communicating flexibility, organizational skills, and more, and the position of Scrum Master is a natural fit for many of us as project managers.

Now you know a bit more about the pillars and the role of the Scrum Master. To recap, a Scrum Master must possess skills like organization, leadership, the 
ability to facilitate, coach, and manage stakeholders. And a Scrum Master can be quite different from a project manager in terms of their responsibilities, but 
the role may be played by the same individual since they require a similar skill set.
