The closing process for the team

I've talked to you about retrospectives quite a bit throughout this program, and that's because there really is no better tool for reflection and improvement.

Retrospectives are such an important aspect of the project, and it's important to really emphasize that to you. Throughout the course, I'm referring to the formal
practice, but a lot of us conduct informal retrospectives daily without even knowing it. 

Whether we're talking about our day with our friends or family or thinking about how we can improve past interactions, we are constantly reflecting and working 
toward progress. 

Let's revisit formal retrospectives for a moment to explore how they tie into the formal project closing process. You might remember that a retrospective is a
meeting aimed to discuss successes, failures, and possible improvements on the project. They can occur after a major milestone completion and at the end of a
project. 

In order to understand the importance of closing a project, let's discuss the three main retrospective benefits for your team. Retrospectives encourage 
team-building because they allow team members to understand differing perspectives. Retrospectives facilitate improved collaboration on future projects, and 
they promote positive changes in future procedures and processes.

So it's no surprise that a retrospective is a critical part of closing a project. Whether your team has chosen to close the project after each phase or
comprehensively at the end, you'll conduct retrospectives as a part of that process. There may be temptation within your project team to resist reflecting before 
forging ahead into the next phase, but you can't grow and improve if you don't spend time reflecting. 

Reflecting is a great way to learn which practices you should keep doing and which ones you can improve upon. As a project manager, you want to build a culture
within your team and company to aim for constant improvements. This means that you'll need to solicit feedback that will help you to do better in your next project.

This feedback might touch on any aspect of the project, from planning, scheduling, execution, communication, or team dynamics. You might receive feedback about
processes you led, and that's okay. Working through feedback is crucial to your growth as a project manager. It's important to create a safe space for that 
feedback so that folks can really share what they're thinking and the team can grow together. 

This is a key piece to help improve collaborations on future projects. Part of encouraging continuous growth is to recognize and celebrate a job well done. The way
you celebrate will change depending on where you're at in the project and what feels most appropriate to your team. Taking a moment to reward yourself with a token
of appreciation turns the celebration into a team-building exercise. 

Being appreciative ensures that the work you're doing feels uplifting and rewarding, rather than monotonous and tiring. It also fuels positive change. So when
closing a project, don't forget the fun elements.

Makes sure to play a game, eat some cake, and celebrate some quality time together, because you've earned it. Let's review. Retrospectives encourage team-building
because they allow team members to understand differing perspectives. They facilitate improved collaboration on future projects, and they promote positive changes
in future procedures and processes. 
