The evolution of Agile


Since its creation in 2001, Agile popularity has increased incredibly fast. One industry report showed that 85 percent of organizations have adopted a product-centric
model, which is associated with an Agile approach. 

The state of Agile report describes how 30 percent of those companies using the product-centric model apply a hybrid of methodologies. This means that being able to
blend methods will be a super useful skill to have as you start your project management career.

Like we explained in an earlier video, one of the reasons for Agile's growing popularity is that we're in a very VUCA world. Businesses face a lot of volatility,
uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity, and they recognize that Agile and the frameworks that derive from it are a way to overcome those challenges. 

In this video, we'll discuss how Agile has already started evolving and explore some emerging ideas about how it might continue to evolve in the future. The Agile
Manifesto as a mindset or philosophy, hasn't changed much in almost 30 years. The frameworks it inspired though, have continued changing and evolving to keep up 
with changing business environments. One emerging Agile framework is called DevOps, which combines software development and IT operations.

Our Google Cloud Platform Business defines DevOps as an organizational and cultural movement that aims to increase software delivery velocity, improve service
reliability, and build shared ownership among software stakeholders. Like all Agile frameworks, DevOps aims to shorten the product lifecycle and deliver software
products continuously and with very high-quality.

DevOps emerged when software companies were faced with trying to figure out how to ensure their software products would run reliably for billions of people across
the world, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. As someone who spent my first few years at Google studying product breakdowns, I can tell you how difficult this is.
If a business has the ability to launch products and features fast and reliably to a global marketplace, that's a significant competitive advantage.

DevOps is about growing and managing teams and organizations that can build and evolve large-scale systems at a rapid pace. These systems need to be both secure
and reliable, so they can better deliver value to customers and organizations. If you decide to pursue a project manager role in the DevOps framework, you'll venture
into the future of Agile approaches and large-scale software systems that are literally changing the world. Pretty exciting, right? One of the next frontiers of
Agile is called business agility, which involves incorporating Agile principles into the wide sphere of management, so that the organization can thrive in high VUCA 
environments. 

Organizations that want to become Agile in this sense often find themselves rethinking everything, from financial planning processes, governance and reporting
structures, to hiring and HR practices, and much more. They're looking for ways to make Agile values and frameworks work for larger and larger organizations. As an
Agile project manager in a larger organization, you might find yourself using frameworks like Scrum of Scrums or Scaled Agile Framework, also known as SAFe.

Check out the resources and readings for this video to learn more. It's also important to call out that Agile has reached a lot of industries beyond technology 
and software. Recently, I was asked to give Agile training to the Google sales team in Latin America. They experienced major changes in their market and wanted
to develop the skills to react quickly to those changes and still deliver results. 

During the training, we had great discussions about the benefits of Agile. The team especially liked how Agile can help reduce risk at all stages of their sales
cycle, through early feedback and frequent and thorough discussions with teammates and customers. Even the construction industry has started applying an Agile 
approach to their projects. 

An article published by the Project Management Institute describes how construction projects used Agile to deal with delays and budget overruns by translating
the Agile Manifesto into construction industry terms, like: silos are minimized and close cooperation is encouraged.

Finally, Agile methodologies can also be applied to your own personal life. For example, I was planning a move recently and immediately set up a Kanban board to 
start planning my tasks. Have any projects in your life that could use a Kanban board? How about a garage cleanup or a family reunion or barbecue? Who's on your 
Scrum Team? From DevOps and business agility to Agile methodologies in the construction industry and beyond, it's clear that Agile's benefits will be useful for
a long time to come. 

The practitioners, project managers, and teams who live and breathe the Agile values are the ones that help Agile evolve and advance, which means that you can 
play an important role in contributing to the future of Agile too. 
