Transferable project management skills


Let's get right into it and explore the variety of skills you'll use. Have you ever been tasked with planning a loved one's surprise birthday party? There's usually
a lot of pressure and responsibility, but when you get it right, it feels amazing. That's still true even if there were a couple of issues. 

Maybe the guest of honor arrived home earlier than expected and nearly ruined the surprise. But if you made someone feel special on their birthday you probably 
planned a successful project. As you chose a venue, sent out invitations, and calculated your budget based on your number of guests, you were using several
project management skills, like planning and organizing, managing tasks, budgeting, and controlling costs, and more. Or maybe you've never planned a party.

Have you ever worked in the retail space, or in the service industry? Then you might have experience that'll translate into the project management field, too.
For example, you might have been in charge of managing several employees' schedules. To do that, you had to plan and organize which employees' work styles would
complement each other in a productive way. 

You also had to make sure that all duties and responsibilities would be covered during each shift. Plus, you had to be aware of all employees' availability. Doesn't
sound familiar? Well, have you ever had to relocate for a new job and planned a big move? To successfully move all of your belongings, you may have coordinated 
friends and family to help. You would have had to budget and control costs for moving companies, boxes, and miscellaneous expenses. You probably packed your boxes
one room at a time and clearly labeled the boxes so that you knew what each box was when you arrived at the new place. 

You had to manage all of these tasks simultaneously. You've likely handled several tasks like these in your lifetime. In studying project management, you'll learn 
to further advance and sharpen these skills so that you'll be equipped to manage even bigger, more daunting tasks. The abilities that helped you complete these 
past projects are a great selling point for yourself as a future project manager. So be sure to bring up these examples in job interviews to demonstrate your 
skills. 

For instance, if you're asked questions like, "Tell me about a time when you had to juggle several tasks at once", or "Tell me about a time when you had to influence
a customer or a teammate." It's good to have examples that demonstrate your skills with time management and leadership in both your everyday life and previous
workplaces. Are you thinking about all of the skills that you already have and can use in your future project management role? Perfect. 

Up next, we'll learn more about the types of project management roles that you'll be qualified for after this program.
