What does a project manager do?


Project managers usually follow a process that involves planning and organizing, managing tasks, budgeting, controlling costs and other factors. Everything they do
helps make sure the project can be completed on time and on budget. In broad terms, a project manager also needs to make sure that the project outcome is bringing
value to the company. A project manager can add value in many different ways. 

Whether that's creating a new service for customers or modifying an old service so it's more tailored to the customer's needs. No matter what the task is, a 
successful project will always add value.

And it's the project manager's job to make sure that project is both valuable and successful. You may be asking yourself, well, if I'm a project manager, how do I
add value to an organization every day? What does the day-to-day life of a project manager look like? Well, a project manager's responsibilities can vary, depending
on the project, the industry, and the company they're working in. 

Are you constructing a new building? Are you project managing a renewable energy product in a startup? Or are you setting up your own event management company? Your
tasks will be different in each scenario, but here's a general overview of what a typical day might look like.

A project manager's daily responsibilities always include some version of the following, planning and organizing. An example of that might be gathering requirements
from teammates or customers. This means figuring out what exactly your project's trying to accomplish. You might have a kickoff meeting or send a survey. 

From here you may also work on creating project plans. Creating project plans is a key part of project management. It helps set the tone of the project, keeps
everyone on pace and aligned, and helps move tasks along. Which leads me to my second point, managing tasks. Once the project is underway, the project manager helps
manage tasks for the team members and communicates key milestones to the larger team or customers.

This helps keep team members, and customers updated on how the project is progressing. The third piece is budgeting and controlling costs and other factors. Managing
the budget and controlling costs is a common responsibility that project managers have to understand to keep the project on track and within budget. 

This is a full-time job because the plan you've created and managed may change causing unexpected costs to come up. And that's just to name a few. I could go on 
for days. But the most important thing to know about the day to day of a project manager is this: You'll use different tools, techniques and methodologies every
single day. There's never a dull moment. Personally, my favorite part about being a project manager is that I get to watch the project's growth from start to finish.
It's really special to create something from nothing, working from the ground up. It's a really satisfying feeling. 

As a project manager, you'll use a variety of skills every day, and a lot of these skills you might already have, and we'll discuss this more coming up
