You might have an incredible idea about where you want a program or a project to go, and so once you have come up with all these creative ideas, and you want to
convince someone to sign off on it, you have to think about what's in it for them. What's the impact that this project or program is going to have on the business,
on the consumer, what have you, and so once you are able to distill what that impact is going to be, you can really think about how you're going to frame the ask to
that executive stakeholder.

Influencing, everyone has the ability to do it. You've done it since you were a kid, whether it be trying to go out and play with your friends or get your favorite
meal from the favorite restaurant that you have. You've always tried to influence someone to give you what you want, but you have to think about what the value is
for them. So different, when you're a kid, the value is only really for you.

When I first came into my role as a diversity program manager, there were a set of programs that had been around for a number of years, and I came in, I had a fresh
set of eyes, and I recognized that there's a lot of redundancy with the programs that we had. What I did is came in and I had to influence people that had been
running those programs, that their programs were all very similar in that if we all work together, we'd be able to build just one program that solves all these needs.

Now that took some time, right? I had to show examples of why I think this singular program could impact the target population in the same way I had to show how each
person would have a role in this new found program, right? I couldn't just say like all of your programs need to stop. It was more so all your programs need to mature
into this new identity, so it took some time. It really also took a lot of relationship massaging and maturing because I was a new guy, so I had to come in and prove
myself. The impact was shown pretty soon after because it was thought through well in advance. My advice is: keep it simple. 

So, you have all of the background information about why this is important, all the steps it will take you to get there, but the person who you're trying to
influence just needs to know when you're going to get there and basic information on how you're going to get there. And so, don't try to bring them into the weeds
with you.

Keep them at a point that makes sense for the audience that you're in. So if you're talking to a researcher, they might want to know the data points. So, talking
to the marketing team, they want to probably know the more splashy high-level elements and the target demographics. So keep in mind your audience, but keep it 
simple. 

Influencing doesn't need to be a chore. Once you've done the work, you should be excited to talk to someone about it, and so, if you don't feel excited about
the work that you're doing, I would take a step back and think about what it is that you are building, what it is that you're putting together, and if it doesn't
excite you, it's not going to excite somebody else.
