Activity: Update your project charter goals


Activity Overview
In this activity, you will update the project charter’s general goals and deliverables into SMART ones based on a new conversation and company mission documents.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Peta has finished discussing the details of the project with the team. The next step is to review documentation to clarify some of the project’s goals.




Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project charter draft you updated in the last activity, Revise your project charter. 

As you complete these instructions, you will update the following sections of your project charter:

1. Goals

2. Deliverables




Step 2: Analyze project goals for SMART criteria

Analyze the goals and deliverables you drafted and ensure they meet all the SMART criteria. If they do not meet all criteria, highlight, bold, or underline the
parts of each goal that need additional detail and take note of the missing information. 

As a reminder, for a goal to be SMART, it must be:

1. Specific

2. Measurable

3. Attainable

4. Relevant

5. Time-bound 




Step 3: Rewrite project goals to be SMART

Based on your analysis from Step 2, choose 3-5 goals and rewrite them to make them SMART. (If all your original goals meet all five criteria, that’s great!)
Review the supporting materials from previous activities to find the additional details you need to make your goals SMART.

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

As a reminder, here’s how to rewrite a goal to make it SMART: 

1. Example goal: "Increase gift card sales by the end of the year (EOY)."

2. Updated SMART goal: "Increase gift card sales by 15% by the end of the year (EOY) by offering a 25% discount to returning customers."

Use the following Guiding Tips and Questions if you need more help rewriting your goals. Keep in mind the more detail you add to the project goals, the more 
clarity they will bring to the team throughout the project:

1. Is the goal specific? Does it detail what needs to be done?

2. Is the goal measurable? Can it be quantified?

3. Is the goal attainable? Can your team accomplish it?

4. Is the goal relevant? Does it currently benefit the company? 

5. Is the goal time-bound? Does your team have an idea of when it will be completed?

Note: In some cases, you may not be able to find every detail you need to write an entire SMART goal, so you can use a placeholder such as “TBD” (“to be determined”).
For example, "Customers will check out TBD times faster than before the project started." Even if you don't know the specifics of your goals, writing them in SMART 
language will force your team to return to them later and define all of the missing specifics.




Step 4: Save your work 

Be sure to save the project charter you drafted for this activity. You will revise and refine project artifacts, including the project charter, as you progress
through the course. 

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to include the following elements in your updated project charter: 

5 revised SMART goals.

1. Rewrite project goals to be Specific. 

2. Rewrite project goals to be Measurable. 

3. Rewrite project goals to be Attainable. 

4. Rewrite project goals to be Relevant. 

5. Rewrite project goals to be Time-bound. 
