 Video Chat: Decrease Guest Wait Time
 
 
 Below is a transcript with the following people: 

1. Peta (Project Manager)

2. Gilly (General Manager, North)

3. Alex (General Manager, Downtown)

Purpose: Discuss the goal: Decrease guest wait time by X%





Peta (Project Manager): Hi team! I’m trying to clarify the goal of decreasing guest wait time. To me, this seems redundant with the table turn time goal. If
tables turn more quickly, wait times will decrease naturally. 


Gilly (General Manager, North): They should, but wait time also depends on how busy the restaurant is.


Peta: But the tablets aren’t likely to influence that, are they?


Gilly: Well if guest experience improves dramatically in light of the pilot, there may be more demand to eat at our restaurants.


Peta: Hmm, this feels like a lot of “if’s”... I’m not so sure we should include this goal.


Alex (General Manager, Downtown): I’m comfortable removing it in favor of the table turn time goal, which I agree is more specific.


Gilly: OK, if you can convince Deanna, then it’s fine by me.


Peta: Great. Since I have you here, are there any other goals we need to address?


Alex: I was thinking I’d really like to reallocate some of our payroll. I think the tablets will allow our servers to cover more tables at once. We can spend some
of our savings on hiring more kitchen staff to meet higher demand.


Peta: Yes, Deanna mentioned that—I’ve made note of it here. But, until we have some data around how the tablets impact table turn time and changes in revenue, we
won’t know how much we’ll have available to hire more kitchen staff.


Gilly: Yeah, and I don’t want to give up front-of-house payroll in case we need to hire more hosts or bartenders. 


Alex: Well, the kitchen is going to need more staff at some point. In addition to line cooks, we’ll definitely need more bussers and runners. How are we going to
account for that?


Peta: Hmm… okay I’ll keep thinking about this. Before you go, I want to tie these goals to a specific timeline so we know when to evaluate whether or not we’ve
achieved them. Since we’re aiming to pilot these in April, I think measuring them through the end of June makes sense. What do you think?


Gilly: That works for me. 


Alex: For me as well!


Peta: Great, thanks so much! I’ll get to work on these and share them with Deanna.

