In this activity, you will review supporting materials and add the project scope, costs, and benefits to your project charter. You will also identify an aspect of
the project as being out-of-scope and add it to the charter.

Keep in mind that project charters can differ significantly from project to project and company to company. However, most charters include some variation of the
components described in this activity. No matter what form they take, charters lay out project goals, highlight benefits, and help keep stakeholders aligned.

At the end of this activity, you should have a completed project charter. Once submitted, your peers will review your completed project charter and provide 
feedback on each section.


Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Yellow line
Now that Peta has clarified and updated the project goals, she checks in with Deanna, Carter, Gilly, and Alex to discuss their concerns about the project’s scope. 

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 



Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project charter draft you updated in your last activity, Update your project charter goals. 

As you complete these instructions, you will update the following sections of your project charter:

Scope and Exclusion

Benefits & Costs

Appendix




Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed with the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Meeting: Scope Details

Tablet Implementation Cost

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.




Step 3: Determine the scope of the project

Review the meeting transcript to determine aspects of the project that are in scope or out-of-scope. Make note of any confusion or disagreement among the team
regarding what should be included—or not included—in this project. (You are encouraged to make note of any other relevant project information as well. You may
add this information to your notes or the project charter.)

Add any items that are part of this project to the In-Scope section. Any items that should be excluded from the project to the Out-of-Scope section of your
charter draft.




Step 4: Identify the benefits and costs of the project 

Review the Cost Sheet and add project costs to the Benefits & Costs section of your project charter draft. Then, review existing project documentation for more
details that you can add to the Benefits & Costs section. 

Consider the following Guiding Questions when determining the benefits and costs of this project: 

What is the biggest problem you are trying to solve?

What defines “success” or “completion” to you?

What are the biggest risks for this project?

What are the resources and timeline needed?

What are the outcomes? 

What is the indirect or long term impact?  

Who is the audience or beneficiary?





Step 5: Identify misalignments 

Review the meeting transcript to identify misalignments among stakeholders. You should have a total of 4-6 misalignments documented in your charter.

Add these to the Appendix of your project charter. Be sure to record whether they were resolved, and what the resolutions were. If they were not resolved, note 
any next steps for resolving them.





Step 6: Save your work 

Be sure to save the project charter you drafted for this activity. You will revise and refine project artifacts, including the project charter, as you progress
through the course. 




Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 18 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your project charter. Your final grade will be the median of these 
scores. You must get 15 out of 18 total points to pass.





Giving Good Feedback
less 
Once you complete the activity, review and provide constructive feedback for at least two classmates. Below are some guidelines to help you leave constructive
comments for your peers. 

When giving feedback, consider:

Leading with positive feedback

Providing a balance of positive and actionable feedback

Sticking to information-specific, issue-focused, and observation-centered comments
