Create evaluation questions and indicators


Activity Overview
In this activity, you will create evaluation questions in order to help you determine if the project is meeting the quality standards you outlined. An evaluation
question is a key question about the outcomes, impact, and/or effectiveness of your project or program. 

You will also create evaluation indicators to help you get the right information needed to answer the questions. Evaluation indicators define the specific type 
of data that needs to be collected.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Now that the tablet test launch is complete, Peta wants to ensure that it leads to a successful rollout at both pilot locations. She does this by creating 
evaluation questions and indicators to measure the results of the test launch, and assess the project’s progress at this stage.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project plan draft that you worked on in the last activity, Add quality standards to your project plan.

Step 2: Create evaluation questions

Based on the quality standards you identified in the last activity, create 2-3 evaluation questions you would ask to assess the success of the tablet test launch.
Add these questions under the Quality and Evaluation tab in your project plan, in the Evaluation Questions column.


Remember, there are two main types of evaluation questions. There are questions that ask how you can make improvements, such as:

How can we improve?

What is working and what’s not working?

Which goals are being met?  

Who is benefiting? 

What are the most common participant reactions? 




There are also questions that help you measure and compare, such as:

Were there unintended outcomes?

What were the costs and benefits?

Are there any lessons to be learned?

Should we continue?





A well-crafted evaluation question should provide you with valuable data. As you create your evaluation questions, consider the following:

Does the question address stakeholder or user values, interests, and concerns?

Does the question relate to the purposes of the project and of evaluation?

Is the question worth answering and important for the project and beyond?

Is the question practical and feasible to answer with available resources?







Step 3: Add evaluation indicators

Next, create an evaluation indicator for each evaluation question. Add your evaluation indicators under the Quality and Evaluation tab in your project plan, in the
Evaluation Indicators column.

Evaluation indicators state the specific type of data you need to collect to answer your evaluation questions. As you create your evaluation indicators, ask 
yourself the following questions:

What do you want to measure or evaluate? The number of something? The level of satisfaction? Preferences? Demographic information like age, gender, or experience?

Will the indicator demonstrate that you have reached the desired outcome?

Will the indicator provide measurable evidence of meeting a goal? Examples of measurable evidence could include things like test scores, attendance rates, or 
observed behavior
