Case study: Forming a value-driven task force
In the previous video, you learned that value-driven delivery is critical to Agile and Scrum project management. In this reading, you will read a case study and
analyze how Agile brought value to the organization. 

Learning from case studies
As you pursue your career in project management, you will come across many resources for learning about other companies and their journeys to becoming Agile. 

Case studies—in-depth, data-driven analyses of a business, community, or organization—are valuable tools for gaining key industry insights and learning from the
successes and failures of your competitors. 

When reading case studies, focus on the problem, the effect it had on the business or organization, and the pros and cons of the solutions reached to help you
determine some applicable key takeaways.

As you read, ask yourself: 

1. What is the issue?

2. What is the goal of the analysis?

3. What is the context of the problem?

4. What key facts should be considered?

5. What alternatives are available to the decision-maker?

6. What would you recommend, and why?


Value-driven delivery at Sephora
The case study linked below is about how the teams at Sephora, the multinational retailer of personal care and beauty products, created value-driven delivery by
forming an Agile task force. 

As the case study details, Sephora’s goal was to develop an organized and efficient process for rolling out customer-centered initiatives. The beauty retailer
wanted to maximize their paid media and create custom messaging that was personalized to meet their customers’ needs.

Keep the questions above in mind as you read through the case study. Notice how the various roles and responsibilities were essential to the process and how the
company brought people from across the organization together to ideate, test, and analyze. 

When you are finished, think about how Scrum benefitted Sephora and how it improved their overall business model.

Link: How Sephora Teams Came Together to Create an Agile Task Force
