Components of a value roadmap


In the last video, you learned about value-driven delivery, which is when the team is focused on delivering a product that has maximum value for its customers. One
way to help teams make sure they're staying focused is by following a value roadmap. 

In this video, I'll explain what a value roadmap is and what you need to create one. As a project manager, part of your job is to help team stay focused on delivering
value. A great way to do this is to build a value roadmap. 

It's an Agile way of mapping out the timelines and requirements for the product development process and can be used in all types of businesses. This roadmap is a
guide that demonstrates where to go, how to get there, and what to accomplish along the way in order to maximize value.

It helps map out a product idea and the strategy for how to deliver it. As the team follows their roadmap, they gather input from customers and stakeholders and 
apply their findings to each iteration of the product. 

Creating a roadmap helps the team explain the vision of the product and can also be used to identify important milestones. A typical value roadmap has three 
components: a product vision, a product roadmap, and release plans.

The first component of a value roadmap is the product vision. Your product vision is a critical step to starting any new Scrum project. Your vision is based on your 
user interviews and market analysis and becomes your team's north star. 

In other words, it's what guides your team. The product vision defines what the product is, how it supports the customer's business strategy, and who will use it. 
Next, there's the product roadmap, which the Product Owner is responsible for creating and maintaining. It provides a high-level view of the expected product, its 
requirements, and an estimated schedule for reaching milestones. It's key to making sure your team is building the right thing.

The third component of a value roadmap is a series of release plans. The Product Owner and project manager work together to develop these plans. Product releases 
occur when the team has developed a basic working version of a given feature or requirement. A release plan includes the approximate date when the team is expected
to release and deliver certain features to the customer or user.

An Agile team may have several releases over the course of a project until their project is considered done. For this reason, only the first release date should be
considered to be set in stone. The rest of the release plan is based on early estimates and is subject to change as the project proceeds. 

A release plan contains a release goal, which is an overall business goal for the features you plan to include in the release; the list of Backlog items such
as epics, user stories, or features that you require for that release goal; an estimated release date; and any other relevant dates that impact a release, like 
a convention or major holiday. It's important to add all of your release plans to your value roadmap to help you stay focused on the path to your overall value 
goal.

In summary, the value roadmap contains three key components: the product vision, product roadmap, and release plan. These three work together to help an Agile team
reach its goals through multiple iterations. A value roadmap only works if the team is collaborative and all stakeholders work together regularly. This will ensure
that the project achieves results that aligned with the Agile values and principles. Awesome. Now you know how to create a value roadmap.
