Week 4 - Email: Post Project Launch Check-in

Below is an email thread between the following people:

Peta Tsosie (Project Manager)

Molly Edwards (Project Manager)


To: Peta Tsosie
From: Molly Edwards
Subject: Congrats on the project launch!

Hi Peta,

Congratulations on the tablet launch! I’m excited to work with you on the next round of rollouts and really appreciate your help as I get familiar with Sauce & 
Spoon and all the project details.

I know you’ve been busy for the past few months. Once you have the closeout report wrapped up, I was hoping we could grab lunch and talk more about the project.
In the meantime, are there any highlights you’re able to share with me now? 

Congrats again!

Molly






Hey Molly,

Thanks so much—and welcome to the Sauce & Spoon family! 

Things have been busy, but the tablets are out and guests are using them. We managed to get everything  off the ground—after a lot of work!—and the project has
been pretty successful. Of course, we only got there after tweaking some things following the test launch. Guests and waitstaff are both adjusting to the tablets,
and we’ve had some good feedback from guests. They like the novelty of the tablets, but also how they’re speeding things up. It’s kind of a different look for
Sauce & Spoon, but it still fits with the brand.

I’d love to grab lunch soon. It would give us a chance to debrief before I do my personal closing report.

Peta


Peta,

That’s fantastic! I heard that the responses after the pilot were a little shaky. How did you fix it?

P.S. Yes to lunch! I’ll set something up :)

Molly








Hi Molly,

Thanks, I did the best I could! 

Yes, we made several adjustments in response to the pilot and our survey results. First, our guests seemed to have some trouble with the navigation, so we switched
to a layout that they've found much simpler. 

We also found out we weren’t hitting our objective of reducing table turn time, so we worked with the general managers on ways to speed things up. We finally did
manage to reduce turn time by 30 minutes. That was mostly through training and getting waitstaff to be more aware of guest pacing. Quicker turns means shorter 
wait times for tables, so we accomplished that, too. We also confirmed that the average tablet checkout time has stayed at one minute or less, so that’s another 
win. 

One more change we made was creating clearer messaging around payment options. We wanted to make it clear that the tablets only take cards, while also streamlining
the process for customers who need to pay cash. And I’m pretty sure we’ve weeded out the glitchy tablets through our new pre-service testing checklist! We wanted
less than 5% of customers reporting tech issues each week, and we got there.

Peta





Hi Peta,

Oh wow, that’s awesome! So did you accomplish everything you wanted to? How are Gilly and Alex feeling about things? Have Carter and the kitchen staff made any
improvements?

Molly







Hey Molly,

Well, as far as getting everything accomplished, I’d say we did! We eventually met (and exceeded) our goals, but again, it was after we made improvements based on
the test launch. 

Alex got the waitstaff at the Downtown location to reduce table turn time, and has already increased daily guest count by 20% (our goal was 10%). Gilly is getting
used to the new ways of doing things, but she’s always positive and focused on what’s going to create a great experience for the customer. 

As for Carter, well… The survey results showed that customers were still receiving incorrect orders, so we had a conversation and I think we’re on the same page 
in looking at all possibilities for errors, which includes the kitchen staff. I reminded him that we’re all working towards the common goal of providing a great
customer experience. We wanted to reduce food waste by 25%, and we’ve just hit that number.

I got the invite for lunch next week. Looking forward to it!

Peta


Great! I’m excited to chat more in person. Although, I guess we covered more than just the highlights here!  Hopefully it’s helpful for your closeout report, haha.

Thanks so much,

Molly
