Week 3 - Meeting: Weekly Check-In

Below is a transcript of a conversation between the following people during their weekly check in: 

1. Peta (Project Manager)

2. Deanna (Director of Operations)


Deanna: Hey, Peta! How are things going with the project?

Peta: They’re going pretty well! We’re working through the project plan, and looking forward to launch.

Deanna: That’s great! For our check-in today, I thought we could go over some of the quality standards for this project.

Peta: Sure. Any you had in mind specifically?

Deanna: I’d like to update Omar on how the project will meet our commitment to customer satisfaction. Think we can put a list of criteria together? To start,
since delays in service have led to negative reviews, I think we can safely assume that customers would be satisfied by a faster, more efficient experience—and
by having their orders made correctly.

Peta: Yes! But, we need to make sure these can be measured so we can know we’ve met the standard. Can we dig into the details and get a little more specific?
For example, when we mention a “faster, more efficient experience,” how can we measure that?

Deanna: Hm. What about average ticket time—the amount of time between placing an order and delivering it to the table. Based on my experience, a good average is
eight minutes for appetizers and 12-15 minutes for entrees. Since the tablets are supposed to help improve the flow of ticket orders, we could use these metrics.
That would help with our goal of bringing down the average table turn time by 30 minutes, which should certainly increase customer satisfaction.

Peta: Great. What else would fall under a “faster, more efficient experience”? Since guests can run their cards at the table, maybe quicker check-out could be one? 

Deanna: I like that. We've heard that customers are satisfied with our delivery checkout system online so a quicker dining experience would be great to mirror that.
How would we measure that?

Peta: We could look at having a one-minute checkout time and ensure the checkout process is seamless and easy to navigate from a user perspective. 

Deanna: I think that’s great to add to our list of quality criteria to help us meet customer satisfaction—a checkout time of one minute or less. Great! What else 
do you think could help with an efficient experience?

Peta: Well, one thing that wouldn't help customers have a positive and efficient experience is if the tablets don’t work the way they’re supposed to! One of our 
charter goals is for less than 5% of customers who use the tablets to report technical issues each week.

Deanna: Definitely. So, let’s add that to the list of criteria. And what about cutting down on incorrect orders?

Peta: Yes! How about we aim for 98% order accuracy? Since guests will be placing their own orders, they’ll be able to confirm what they order before sending the
ticket to the kitchen. Assuming the tablets function properly, there shouldn’t be many problems with guests receiving incorrect orders anymore. 

Deanna: These are great! Are there any other aspects we want to consider that could increase customer satisfaction before I present this to Omar? What do you
think about decreased customer wait time in the lobby? We could aim for an average wait time of ten minutes or less before customers are seated.

Peta: Absolutely—that makes sense since we’re expecting wait times to go down as table turn time decreases. So, measuring the specific impact will be useful.
I think Omar will be happy with this list. We have some solid criteria to ensure we’re meeting the standard when it comes to customer satisfaction. This list
will also probably come in handy as we set up customer satisfaction surveys later on.

Deanna: Great! Thanks for working on this with me. Can you get the rest of the quality standards outlined in time for next week’s check-in? 

Peta: Sure thing!
