Week 2 - Meeting: Tablet Shipment Updates


Below is the transcript of a phone conversation with the following people: 

Peta (Project Manager)

Seydou (Restaurant Consultant)


Seydou: Hi Peta.

Peta: Hi Seydou! What’s going on?

Seydou: I wanted to follow up on our chat the other day about shipping times and estimates for the tablets. Here’s what I’ve got: You’ll confirm the number of
devices you need on the first of the month. Then we're expecting them to take about a week to get to you, and the launch is scheduled for the very end of the month. 

Peta: Yes, that’s the tentative plan for right now.

Seydou: And we had talked about having new, upgraded devices to ship out to you. But it looks like the shipment of those upgraded devices has been delayed.

Peta: Oh no, what happened? My understanding from our last conversation was that they would arrive in plenty of time before our scheduled launch.

Seydou: They’re getting shipped from overseas and a series of storms have disrupted supply lines, so everything’s delayed.

Peta: Delayed by how long?

Seydou: A few weeks.

Peta: So, that would mean pushing back our launch date by at least a few weeks also.

Seydou: I think I can negotiate a discount on the tablets because of the delay.

Peta: I appreciate that Seydou, but let’s pause here. First, what are our options?

Seydou: Well, if your launch date isn’t yet finalized, there’s the option to push it back so you can launch with the new devices.

Peta: What about the current version of the tablets? Those were the ones you modeled for us, right?

Seydou: Correct.

Peta: They seemed to do the job just fine. Does Terrific Tablets have those in stock?

Seydou: I would really advise waiting on the upgraded devices. They’re going to be bigger and faster.

Peta: Are they running the same software?

Seydou: They are.

Peta: So if we implement the new devices later on, we wouldn't need to re-train the staff and the experience would be essentially the same for the customers.

Seydou: But do you really want to swap out devices later on?

Peta: I’d like to try to stick with our planned launch day, if we can. The rest of the project is on track for that end-of-the-month deadline, so I’d love to
figure out a way to stay on schedule. Do they have the devices you modeled for us in the warehouse?

Seydou: They might, but I’m not sure they’ll have as many as you were hoping to roll out initially.

Peta: I think it’s easier to adjust the number of tablets than the launch date.

Seydou: Okay, I’ll check on those for you after we get off the phone.

Peta: Any chance you can check now?

Seydou: Um—just a moment, let me pull up the screen… So, they do have devices, but they’re not in the warehouse closest to you. They’re a few states away,
which would add maybe three or four days to the shipping estimate.

Peta: Hey, that’s better than a few weeks! And then once the new tablets come in, we can schedule a time in the next month or so to swap them out.

Seydou: That works.

Peta: What would swapping out the old tablets for the new ones involve? Just changing the plugs? Or is it more complicated?

Seydou: Nope, just changing the plug—that’s it.

Peta: Perfect. Since the delay is out of our hands, can you get Terrific Tablets to agree to swap out the devices at no extra cost?

Seydou: Upgrades come with the contract, so that shouldn’t be an issue.

Peta: Do you think you could still get us that discount for the older models?

Seydou: Let me find out. I can’t make any promises until I speak with a sales representative.

Peta: I appreciate whatever you can do there. So, for now we’ll plan on using the current model of tablets that will ship from the out-of-state warehouse, 
which might take up to a week and four days. Let me know how many are available, and I’ll confirm the order. Thank you!
