Week 1 - Email: Sales Goal Details

Below is the email thread between the following: 

1. Peta (Project Manager)

2. Alex (General Manager, Downtown)

3. Gilly (General Manager, North)





From: Peta

To: Alex, Gilly

Subject: Sales goal details

Hi Alex and Gilly,

I’m revising some of the goals for the tablet project. I still need to determine how much we want to increase appetizer sales. I would propose 10% as a starting
point, but I wanted to know your thoughts for a reasonable increase based on your current sales.

Thanks,

Peta

PS: I’ve included the current goal list for reference.

Confirmed goals:

Cut food waste by 25%

Reduce table turn time by 30 minutes

Increase daily guest counts by 10%


To be determined: 

Increase appetizer sales by X%

Reduce guest wait time by X%






From: Gilly

To: Peta

Hi Peta,

The confirmed goals look good to me! As for increasing appetizer sales, this one’s a little tricky. My restaurant is in the business district, so we get lots of
groups joining us for happy hour after work, and they tend to just order apps and drinks. Currently, about 2/3 of the parties that join us after 4pm order 
appetizers and many of them order multiple apps. But, I actually don’t think the tablets are likely to have a measurable impact on my appetizer sales at all. 
Servers will suggest appetizers and provide coupons, but most guests are already planning on ordering them, so I don’t think it’ll matter much. Maybe we should 
cut this as an overall goal?

- Gilly






From: Alex

To: Peta

Hi Peta,

Confirmed goals look good to me, too. For appetizer sales, the location I manage is in an area that attracts more dinner guests. They don’t order appetizers as 
consistently—I’d say at dinner time, maybe 20% of tables order appetizers before their entrees. I’d like to propose a larger increase, something like 20%, but 
I’m not sure it’s reasonable to expect to do that just with the tablets.

- Alex






From: Peta

To: Deanna, Gilly, Alex

Hi All,

Based on feedback, we’re going to keep the goal to increase appetizer sales at both restaurants, as this will support the company-wide goal of increasing product 
mix. Alex wanted a more aggressive increase, however Gilly pointed out that the tablets may not have that big an impact on app sales at her location. So, I’m 
proposing a 15% average increase overall, with the North location targeted for a 10% increase and the Downtown location targeted for a 20% increase. That way, 
the goals stay relevant to the unique trends of each location while still supporting the larger company goal.

Thanks,

Peta
