Week 1 - Email: Project Goals


Below is an email thread between the following people: 

1. Deanna (Director of Operations)

2. Peta (Project Manager)




From: Deanna

To: Peta

Subject: Additional project goals

Hi Peta,

Thanks for all of your work on the project charter so far—I think the rollout will really help us hit on all of our objectives!

On that topic, I wanted to discuss a few additional goals that I think are really important. In terms of our company-wide goal of increasing our product mix, we 
should be trying to raise the average check total. As we discussed, we could do this by encouraging customers to order more appetizers, or in some other way. If
you have any ideas on how the tablet rollout might help us achieve this goal, I’d love to hear them.

Second, Alex has emphasized that if we’re going to reach our goal of decreasing table turn time, their kitchen staff might need more help to meet the increased 
demand. Alex thinks we’ll be able to reallocate some of the payroll from our FOH (that stands for front of house": all the servers and hosts) budget to hire more
cooks. Can we incorporate that into the charter? 

Let me know if you have any questions!

Thanks,

Deanna





Hi Deanna,

Thanks for reaching out about these objectives! The added context is really helpful, as I’m currently trying to clarify some of these goals.

I’ve made note of the average check total goal. I agree that selling more appetizers could help, and Gilly also suggested the idea of selling more specialty drinks.
I’m unclear how we’ll know that we’ve reached this goal, though. Is there a percentage increase for certain menu items sold you'd like to measure? A dollar increase
in average check price? I’d recommend a straightforward metric—for example, how many customers use the coupons we provide. And since  some locations already sell 
more appetizers than others, I’m wondering if we should differentiate this goal by location?

About payroll reallocation, I’m a little hesitant to add that to the charter. How do we know we won’t need to hire more servers or hosts? Also, we don’t have a
guarantee on tablet performance and whether or not profit increases will be stable. Until we have some data that can accurately project revenue increases, we
won’t know how much we’ll have available to hire more kitchen staff. Do you still think it’s reasonable to include this as a deliverable? If so, what should the
timeline be? We’re on track to measure other goals at the end of quarter two.

Finally, I wanted to flag the goal to decrease guest wait time. As Gilly pointed out at the meeting, the goal of decreasing table turn time should naturally reduce
guest wait time, as well as increase daily guest counts. Do you think we really need it to be a separate goal? If so, by how much do we want to reduce guest wait time?

Thanks again for your patience as I get all of the details dialed in.

Best,

Peta





Hey Peta,

Thanks for sharing your thoughts. I feel pretty strongly that we should target increased average check value as a goal, even if the main way to reach it will be 
selling more appetizers and specialty beverages. If you think it’s best to adjust this goal by location, I’m fine with that. Our average check value is currently
$65 across all locations and we’d like to raise that to at least $75. If you’d like to get more specific on this goal, you’ll need to collect more data from our GMs.

I hear your concern about reallocating payroll, but I still think we should  include a plan to ensure the kitchen  has the appropriate resources. Maybe we can 
monitor the payroll and bandwidth of the BOH (that’s “back of house: all the kitchen staff, bussers, and behind-the-scenes staff) and open up two part time line
cook roles in the meantime?

If you believe that the table turn goal will decrease wait times naturally, that’s great. Please just be sure to articulate how decreased table turn time relates to
a decrease in guest wait time.

Best,

Deanna





Hi Deanna, 

Thanks again for the clarifications here. I can talk to the rest of the team about the payroll issue and whether reducing wait times should be a separate goal.
Then I’ll summarize the insights around decreased table turn time, average check goal, and appetizer/drink sales in the project charter, and then distribute it
to the project team for review. 

Best,

Peta
