Week 1 - Meeting: Scope Details


Below is a meeting transcript with the following people: 

1. Deanna (Director of Operations)

2. Carter (Executive Chef)

3. Gilly (General Manager, North)

4. Alex (General Manager, Downtown)

5. Peta (Project Manager)


Deanna (Director of Operations): Thanks for being here, everyone. Let’s get right to business. Peta has drafted the project charter for the tablet rollout—has
everyone had a chance to take a look at it?

Carter (Executive Chef): Yes, it looks great, Peta! This project will really help us dial in our operations over the next few months, especially with the new
policy change.

Gilly (General Manager, North location): Policy change? Sorry, what policy change are we talking about?

Carter: With food waste reduction as one of our goals, I assumed we’d be adjusting our policy on order returns to due error as part of the tablet rollout. Now
we won’t have to replace meals when a guest claims we got their order wrong because the tablet will show that we didn’t.

Alex (General Manager, Downtown): I think that’s a good idea. And it’s another way we can help make things smoother for the kitchen, so I’m all for that.

Gilly: Hmm, I understand the idea, but I don’t remember agreeing to changing the policy. 

Deanna: You’re right, Gilly, we haven’t officially added this change. Thanks for bringing it up, Carter. I think it makes sense, but I’m curious about everyone
else’s thoughts.

Gilly: I’m not sure I agree. The service staff’s goal is to ensure that guests have a good experience, not fact-check them. Our servers won’t be happy about this.
Plus, aren’t policy interventions something that should be addressed separately, not as part of this project?

Carter: I hear you, Gilly, but I don’t think we can hit our food waste goal without adjusting this policy.

Alex: Carter’s right. If hiring more kitchen staff is still in question, we also need to consider this policy.

Peta (Project Manager): Carter, do you think it’s important that this policy change be tied to the tablet rollout? I understand that you don’t agree with the
return policy, but it seems like we could adjust it separately. What do you think?

Carter: If we’re committing to adjusting that policy separately, it doesn’t matter to me whether or not it’s tied to the tablet project.

Peta: Alex, Gilly—are you okay with moving this topic to an operations discussion and keeping it separate from the project, at least for now?

Alex: Sure, as long as we talk about it at some point I’m fine with that.

Gilly: Well, I don’t feel comfortable committing to any changes right now, but I am willing to discuss it separately.

Peta: Carter, it sounds like you’re definitely in favor of changing the policy; is it just about food waste, or is it something else?

Carter: Well, my kitchen staff has metrics around how long customers wait for their food. When the kitchen is slammed because orders are sent back, our kitchen 
doesn’t perform as well against those metrics.

Peta: I see. I’d be happy to revise the food waste goal to include metrics that better capture your staff’s performance, but I’m not convinced a policy change
should be tied to this project, or that I should be responsible for revising company policies. If you and Deanna want to work separately on making policy 
adjustments then I could make sure those changes are reflected in the project goals.

Deanna: I’d be happy to do that.

Carter: That works for me.

Gilly: So we’re in agreement that the policy change isn’t in scope for this project?

Carter: Yes, that’s fine by me.

Deanna: Okay, great. Is there anything else we should address?

Carter: I was hoping we could also include a goal around improving the satisfaction of the kitchen staff. Employee turnover has been high. Do you think that’s an
objective we can work into our plan?

Peta: Hmm, I think employee satisfaction is important, but is something we should be measuring independent of the tablet launch. I’m not sure I’m comfortable
defining a specific goal for it.

Carter: I hear you, but I still believe this launch has the possibility to improve things for my staff.

Peta: OK, but I don’t have a strong sense of how to measure that. If you can  help me find a way to work it into the plan and provide specific metrics, I’ll agree
to include it in the project’s scope. 

Deanna: That sounds good to me—Carter?

Carter: Yes, that works for me as well.

Peta: Great! I’ll get to work on amending the charter.
