Week 1 - Document: Project Proposal

Sauce & Spoon Project Proposal: Menu Tablets
Author: Deanna Coleman, Director of Operations



TABLE OF CONTENTS:

Executive Summary

Opportunity Statement

Project Overview

Proposed Next Steps and Timeline

Sauce & Spoon OKRs


Executive Summary
Sauce & Spoon is a local restaurant chain specializing in scratch-to-table cuisine and committed to partnering with local farmers and suppliers. 

Company Mission and Objectives
Sauce & Spoon exists to enrich our community:

1. Make fresh, quick food for the working families of our community

2. Prioritize our customer needs and wants

3. Run an efficient, profitable business model so we can continue to grow in our community

4. Support local businesses through our sourcing and partnerships


The restaurant group is growing in annual sales (+28%) each year and wants to meet demand by improving current restaurant operations. These are the greatest
areas of opportunity to reduce costs: staffing, order size and amount, improving customer satisfaction and retention, and providing timely and quality service.

To address this, we propose implementing a digital menu and point-of-sale (POS) system that will be guest-facing. This initiative will take the form of a fully
integrated tablet system located at each table to offer guests a seamless ordering experience—and at the same time provide the restaurant with a more effective 
ticketing system.


Opportunity Statement
In our first three years of business, Sauce & Spoon was able to exceed revenue goals and keep up with the customer demand without letting quality suffer. However,
we faced “burnout” among our staff which led to high employee turnover (50% front-of-house reduction). We also risked profitability due to human error in ticketing 
and little-to-no focus on new employee onboarding. 


Today, we have increased the number of restaurant locations and customer sales continue to grow. But, we have failed to create more efficient procedures or address
issues of quality. Internal data shows that the time it takes for customers to receive their orders has increased (+20%) and we have seen a connection to negative
customer satisfaction reviews due to “delay in service.” Our research also shows that, despite an increase in sales, we have maintained a flat profit margin 
year-over-year. 



We’re confident this initiative will be well-received by customers and help reduce errors and sunken costs. 

Project Overview
What? 

Rolling out tabletop menu tablets to assist customers with quick, easy ordering options. 

Why?

Implementing menu tablets at tables and digitizing the ordering process will speed up service and other processes. It will allow us to turn tables more quickly 
and serve more guests. Additionally, it will give us clear data points to track metrics so that we can help ensure the restaurant’s success. It will also help us
keep up with the growing digital presence in the restaurant industry, allowing us to provide customers with a familiar digital experience. 

1. Proposed Next Steps and Timeline
2. Further scope project and create charter outlining scope, metrics, etc. 

Establish pilot plan for tablet rollout

Sauce & Spoon OKRs
Through this project, we hope to support and further our progress toward Sauce & Spoon's company-wide OKRs.

