Phases in action: Initiating and planning


But first, let's review the phases. The project life cycle phases are initiate the project, make a plan, execute and complete tasks, and close out the project. 

Great. Let's get back to the tasks that need to be accomplished during each phase. For this video, we're going to focus on the first two project life cycle phases, 
initiating the project and making a plan. 

It's important to call out that the name or tasks for each phase might change, or may be a little different depending on the type of project or the organization
where you work. 

At Google, we use a mix of different project management methods, which you'll learn more about later in the course. But regardless of the method, all projects share
a lot of the same tasks needed to get the job done. So, let's get into it. The first step of the project life cycle is to initiate the project. 

During initiation, you'll organize all of the information you have available to you about your project. This way, when you're ready to continue on, you'll be
prepared for the next phase when you can create your plan. Defining project goals makes the details of your project clear so that you and your team can successfully
complete the project. 

For example, if the project goal is to manage a political campaign, then some deliverables, which are specific tasks or outcomes, might be to raise $5,000 or get
500 signatures in support of your candidate's cause. With this in mind, you'll need to do some research to come up with ideas that will help you meet your goals. 

You'll also need to find out what resources are available. Resources can include people, equipment, software programs, vendors, physical space or locations, and 
more. Anything you need to actually complete the project is considered a resource. Now as a project manager, you'll record all of these details in your project 
proposal and then get them approved by a decision maker or group of decision makers at your company so that you can move ahead with your project plans.

Now in some cases, you may be the decision maker so be sure to consider the same set of factors when initiating your project before moving to the next stage. No
worries, you will learn all the details about how to create a project proposal. We will be getting into more detail of what this is and how to create one later
in the course. Voila, once your project is approved, you'll move into the second step of the project life cycle, which is to make a plan. 

In this phase, you'll create a budget and set the project schedule. You'll establish the project team and determine each person's roles and responsibilities. Let's
pause for a second. You may be thinking, "Why can't we just get started?", but that's the thing with project management, deliberate planning is critical to a
project's success. A crucial part of project management is planning for risk and change. An experienced project manager knows that plans always change. 

This ability to adapt is all about thinking and planning ahead. Scheduling delays, budget changes, technology and software requirements, legal issues, quality control,
and access to resources are just some of the more common types of risks and changes that a project manager needs to consider. 

So, it's important to keep in mind that planning is key to reducing those risks. But don't worry, if the idea of risks seems a little overwhelming right now, in
later courses, we'll teach you all about understanding risks. Just know that it's really important not to skip this step and to always make a plan. 

Again, the success of your project depends on it. Once you have a plan, you'll communicate all of this information to your team. That way, each member will know
which tasks they'll own and what to do if they have questions or if they run into problems. You'll also communicate your plan with others who have an interest in
the project success, so that they are aware of your plans and your progress as the project continues to move forward. 

Nice job, we've made it halfway through the steps of a project life cycle.
